Position Title
Senior Policy Advisor
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13005666 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-15, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as meeting both A and B below: 

A. Experience in writing, researching, analyzing data, or providing policy advice in at least THREE of the following five areas of focus:
- Consumer financial products; OR
- Economic opportunity; OR
- Child-savings accounts; OR 
- Access to credit; OR
- Financial fraud and scams perpetrated against individuals. 

AND 

B. Experience in at least TWO of the following three activities: 
- Developing national policies, strategies, or plans to improve individual financial literacy, economic mobility, and utilization of financial services. OR 
- Implementation of national public awareness and/or consumer education campaigns related to federal programs and initiatives designed to promote life-long financial security through wealth-building, fraud prevention, payment security, or other means.  OR 
- Developing in-depth written reports analyzing access to credit, financial services, and trends in financial literacy or capability based on independent research of geographic and income-based population data.  

The experience may have been gained in either the public, private sector or volunteer service. One year of experience refers to full-time work; part-time work is considered on a prorated basis. To ensure full credit for your work experience, please indicate dates of employment by month/day/year, and indicate number of hours worked per week on your resumé.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


You will now be asked to complete a second assessment comprised of two narrative questions. There is a 2,500-character limit on each response. Please allow sufficient time to complete before midnight on the close date of the announcement. The narrative responses are expected to take one hour, at a minimum. Non-detailed and answers such as N/A, See Resume, etc. will be deemed ineligible.

Please do not share this link with anyone else, as this exclusive link is for you to complete your application. You may need to copy and paste the link into your browser.

You will need to click on the APPLY button on the announcement and go through the 5 steps in USA Jobs to get to the narrative questions.

Exclusive Link: 
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/878387700

 



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙