Position Title
Health System Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13030659-26-EJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Documentation Reminder - If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one year time-in-grade. The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement:
Education: To qualify for the Health System Specialist position, you must possess an Undergraduate or Graduate degree in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR,
Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following:
Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems;
Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and
Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.
OR,
Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included:
Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements;
Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and
Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program.

Do you possess this education or experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-11: One of the following criteria must be met to be qualified for this position at the GS-11 level. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled and is equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-9). Qualifying specialized experience for this position is documented experience: Providing support to sterile processing and reusable medical device (RMD) programs at the facility and/or VISN level; Working with computer applications including word processing, spreadsheets, databases and presentation software; Reviewing reports, policies, memorandums, and briefing materials for accuracy and dissemination; and Supporting the development of project management plans for a facility or VISN.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. Major study must be in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education equivalent to the total requirement of this position NOTE: The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience.
 I do not possess the experience or education requirements described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-12: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in Federal service that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of a Health System Specialist at the GS-12 grade level? Qualifying specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: Providing leadership support to sterile processing and reusable medical device (RMD) programs at the facility and/or VISN level; Utilizing computer applications including word processing, spreadsheets, databases and presentation software to assist in the creation of project management plans, business case reports, and/or implementation/evaluation plans; Utilizing data and evidence based standards to draft reports, guidance, memorandums, and briefing materials for dissemination to leadership; Analyzing inspection results, audits, and other quality assurance related data to identify trends is sterile processing performance; Implementing process improvements to RMD reprocessing process and procedures; and Assisting with the coordinating of virtual and on-site facility or VISN RMD programs.
 Yes
 No


4.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-13: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in Federal service that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of a Health System Specialist at the GS-13 grade level? Qualifying specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: Providing oversight support to sterile processing and reusable medical device (RMD) programs at the facility and/or VISN level; identifying risks and emerging trends in SPS operations by analyzing inspection results, audits, and other quality assurance related data to identify trends is sterile processing performance; coordinating virtual or on-site assessments of facility or VISN RMD programs to support the development of action plans and identify reprocessing failures and vulnerabilities; Utilizing various computer applications including word processing, spreadsheets, databases and presentation software to draft project management plans, business case reports, and/or implementation/evaluation plans; and Utilizing data and evidence based standards to draft reports, guidance, memorandums, and briefing materials for dissemination to leadership. 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙