Position Title
FUL Administrative Support Assistant (OA - Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SS-1629-CHCH-26-1299180-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Chickamauga & Chattanooga National Military Park is defined as 75 miles or less from: 3370 Lafayette Road Fort Oglethorpe, GA 30742

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised? If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


3.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
BASIC EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION SECTION: THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT ALL RESPONSES.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Administrative Assistant (OA) GS-0303-05


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for a Administrative Assistant (OA), GS-0303-05 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess at least one (1) year of Specialized experience at the GS-4 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized Experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes activities such as performing administrative functions such as payroll, personnel, travel, procurement, budget, and/or formal correspondence.
 I have four (4) years of successfully completed education above high school (120 semester hours or 180 quarter hours). This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college, or university. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts that identifies each course of college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information as described previously, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I have NOT completed one (1) year of specialized experience as described above or the four (4) years of education as indicated above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example, six (6) months of specialized experience (50% of the experience requirement), and three (3) years of college study from an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education), equals 100% of the total requirement. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement (You MUST submit a copy of your transcripts indicating number of credit hours in order to qualify based on the combination option).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


2.
This position requires the use of office automation software and the skill of a qualified typist with the ability to type at least 40 words per minute. From the statements below select the one response that best describes your typing skill.
 I use various types of office automated software and can type at least 40 words per minute.
 I do not meet the typing ability described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and /or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and /or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙