Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12975185-26-FJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Technologist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY: Medical Technologists must be proficient in written and spoken English. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes, I am proficient in written and spoken English.
 No, I am not proficient in written and spoken English. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


2.
*-2. Basic Requirement: Education: Clinical Laboratory Scientist must possess one of the following: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*).

Please select the following answer that best describes your Education*You must provide a copy of your transcripts with your job application.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*).
 I do not have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*).


3.
*-3. Certification: Candidates must have either (A)or (B) below:Please select the following response that best describes your Certification.*You must provide a copy of your certification with your job application.

 I currently possess the Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I possess the Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 My certification is not reflected in answers A or B, however I meet the eligibility for a temporary appointment while obtaining required certification. This is for GS-7 only
 I do not meet the certification requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
*-4. For the GS-7 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Employee at this level serves in a CLS entry-level position. It is expected that they receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require daily direct supervision.

Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you possess the basic requirements?
 Yes
 No


5.
For the GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
OR,
Education:  Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
2. Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
3. Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
4. Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
5. Ability to read and interpret written instructions.6. Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

* Please select the following response that best describes your Experience or Education along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-9.
 I have the year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-6) listed above.
 I have a master’s degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or directly related field and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-6) listed above.
 My education or experience and knowledge, skills and abilities are not reflected in answers A or B.


6.
For the GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
OR,
Education: Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound and independent work.
2. Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
3. Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
4. Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
5. Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
6. Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
7. Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

*Please select the following response that best describes your education or experience along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-11.
 I have the year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-7) listed above
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-7) listed above
 My education and experience is not reflected in answers A or B


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (Be as detailed as possible.)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) 

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcript(s) are acceptable.

CERTIFICATION REMINDER: You must submit a copy of your Certification listed with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙