Position Title
Procurement Technician
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26015-2 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions Of Employment
Completion of the attached questionnaire is required.


1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you currently employed in the United States government workforce as a federal employee (e.g., NAF or APF)?

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a federal employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Regular Fulltime, Procurement Technician at - CNRH, JBPHH Accounting Offices. Completion of this questionnaire is a requirement for your application package, and your answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary.


1.
Do you have experience or general knowledge related to the NAF or APF purchase card program, and automated accounting systems?
 Yes, I have 1- 2 years of experience and general knowledge related to the NAF or APF purchase card program, and automated accounting systems.
 Yes, I have 3-4 years of experience and general knowledge related to the NAF or APF purchase card program, and automated accounting systems.
 Yes, I have over 5 years of experience and general knowledge related to the NAF or APF purchase card program, and automated accounting systems.
 No, I have less than 1 year of experience or general knowledge related to the NAF or APF purchase card program, and automated accounting systems.


2.
Do you have thorough knowledge and experience working with the CNIC 7043.1 NAF Procurement Policy and NAF Purchase Card Standard Operating Procedures.
 No, I am not thoroughly knowledgeable and have no experience working with the CNIC 7043.1 NAF Procurement Policy and NAF Purchase Card Standard Operating Procedures.
 Yes, I am thoroughly knowledgeable and have 1 - 2 years of experience working with the CNIC 7043.1 NAF Procurement Policy and NAF Purchase Card Standard Operating Procedures.
 Yes, I am thoroughly knowledgeable and have 2 - 3 years of experience working with the CNIC 7043.1 NAF Procurement Policy and NAF Purchase Card Standard Operating Procedures.
 Yes, I am thoroughly knowledgeable and have 3-4 years of experience working with the CNIC 7043.1 NAF Procurement Policy and NAF Purchase Card Standard Operating Procedures.


3.
Do you have work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic personal computer (PC) and peripheral equipment, Familiarity with automated systems, Word, Excel, Power Point, SAP, JP Morgan etc.
 Yes, I have work experience that demonstrates basic knowledge of personal computer (PC) and peripheral equipment, Familiarity with automated systems, Word, Excel, Power Point, SAP, JP Morgan etc.
 Yes, I have work experience that demonstrates professional knowledge of personal computer (PC) and peripheral equipment, Familiarity with automated systems, Word, Excel, Power Point, SAP, JP Morgan etc.
 Yes, I have work experience that demonstrates expert knowledge of basic personal computer (PC) and peripheral equipment, Familiarity with automated systems, Word, Excel, Power Point, SAP, JP Morgan etc.
 No, I do not have work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic personal computer (PC) and peripheral equipment, Familiarity with automated systems, Word, Excel, Power Point, SAP, JP Morgan etc.


4.
Do you have thorough knowledge and experience of non-appropriated fund porcurement policies and procedures?
 Yes, I am thoroughly knowledgeable and experienced in the use of non-appropriated fund procurement policies and procedures.
 Yes, I have some professional experience in the use of non-appropriated fund procurement policies and procedures?
 Yes, I have some basic knowledge and experience of non-appropriated fund procurement policies and procedures?
 No, I do not have thorough knowledge and experience of non-appropriated fund procurement policies and procedures?


5.
Do you possess excellent communication techniques, both oral and written?
 Yes, I possess excellent communication techniques, both oral and written. I am also considered an expert in this area.
 Yes, I possess excellent communication techniques, both oral and written. I am also considered a professional in this area.
 Yes, I possess communication techniques, both oral and written. I am also considered a novice in this area.
 No, I do not possess excellent communication techniques, both oral and written.


6.
Do you possess a certificate of completion for the NAF Basic Procurement Correspondence Course or equivalent?
 Yes, I possess a certificate of completion for the NAF Basic Procurement Correspondence Course or equivalent?
 No, I do not possess a certificate of completion for the NAF Basic Procurement Correspondence Course or equivalent?


7.
Have you completed the NAF or APF Purchase Card Program Training course?
 Yes, I have completed the NAF / APF Purchase Card Program Training course?
 No, I have not completed the NAF / APF Purchase Card Program Training course?


8.
Do you have a high school diploma or higher level of education?
 Yes, I have a high school diploma.
 Yes, I have a high school diploma and some college related to this career field.
 Yes, I have a high school diploma and a 2-year degree related to this career field.
 Yes, I have a high school diploma and a 4-year degree related to this career field.
 No, I do not have a high school diploma or degree related to this career field.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙