Position Title
Aerospace Engineer (Vehicle Performance) RECENT GRADUATES
Agency
National Transportation Safety Board
Announcement Number
RE-12993865-26-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
From the choices below, please select the one option that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education Requirement.
 I have a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must: (1) be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength materials (stress-strain relationships);(c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science and physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I qualify based on a combination of education and experience which includes successful completion of one of the following as defined by the Office of Personnel Management: Professional Registration, Written Test, Specified academic courses or Related curriculum. More information regarding the above alternative methods may be found at: http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/Standards/IORs/gs0800/0800.htm (http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/Standards/IORs/gs0800/0800.htm)
 I do not possess the educational requirement above.


2.
In order to qualify for the GS-07 grade level, please select one of the choices below.
 I have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized Experience is experience assisting in the execution of aircraft performance analyses (aerodynamics, propulsion, systems, and controls) while applying accepted principles, techniques and practices of engineering along with computational tools. Assisting in preparing briefings, correspondence, reports, and/or memoranda.
 I have 1 year of graduate level education.
 I qualify based on Superior Academic Achievement.
 I have a combination of both experience and education.
 I do not possess the specialized experience nor the education or a combination of both.


3.
In order to qualify for the GS-9 grade level, please select one of the choices below.
 I have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the Federal Service. Specialized Experience is experience assisting in the execution of aircraft performance analyses (aerodynamics, propulsion, systems, and controls) while applying accepted principles, techniques, and practices of engineering along with computational tools; And assisting in preparing briefings, correspondence, reports, and/or memoranda; And assisting in the development of new procedures to address complex investigation scenarios using engineering theories and methods.
 I have 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have a combination of Education and Experience.
 I do not possess the specialized experience nor the education or a combination of both.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information maybe grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding ?no? to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding ?no? to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙