Position Title
AMMUNITION INSPECTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-13013192-AR-26-5592 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question(s):



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants must possess the following experience:

GENERAL EXPERIENCE:  Experience or training which demonstrates the ability to use and maintain tools and equipment associated with the type of work to be done, and to understand and follow oral and written instructions. Experience which demonstrates the knowledge of and the ability to apply safety standards.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  Experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of various codes of federal regulations (i.e., Department of Transportation and Occupational Safety and Health Association). Ability to respond to unforeseen or emergency situations and be able to make immediate responses to emergency situations, determine the correct course of action to mitigate the problem. Knowledge of ammunition/explosives technical references, procedures and policies, materials handling equipment, and lifting gear, rail, and truck characteristics/capabilities. Ability to interpret and apply load drawings technical inspections procedures, publications, specifications, and technical drawings pertaining to ammunition/explosives. Ability to research, interpret and apply all technical information necessary to inspect each specific ammunition and explosive item, component, and specialized packing material. Ability to read and comprehend technical orders, technical manuals, schematics, blueprints, and drawings, as well as communicate orally and in writing to brief and provide training. Knowledge of the safety precautions and procedures necessary to be taken with the variety of ammunition and explosives worked on. Knowledge of detonation and burning methods and procedures for the destruction of ammunition and explosives. Knowledge of product specifications, standards, and associated requirements for preservation, packing, shipping, and storage to ensure product quality, safety, and protection of the environment. Ability to recognize the various munitions and explosives to apply the proper procedure for inspecting. Ability to recognize weather and other conditions that affect explosive operations and to select the alternate procedures necessary under such conditions. Knowledge of operating procedures and safety regulations and procedures applicable to firing range activities. Skill in the operation of the full variety of machines and tools in operations. Skill in the maintenance and minor repair of machines, tools, and equipment used in ammunition maintenance.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙