Position Title
AIRCRAFT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12986493-AR-26-5344 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question(s):


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
Applicant must possess the following experience:

GENERAL EXPERIENCE:  Eligibility requirements for Dual Status technician positions in this occupation are based on the candidate's possession of Federal Aviation Administration pilot certificates -OR- appropriate military certifications, military ratings in the main-frame military aircraft of employment, and the required competencies (knowledge, skills, and abilities). An applicant must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level. 

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for entry appointments to GS-2181-12 or GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Warrant Officer positions.  Qualification competencies are determined by three factors: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. For Army National Guard positions, must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, in military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Groups. To qualify, the applicant must have at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation.  Experienced in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information.  Experienced in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments. Experienced in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance.  Competent in conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks.  Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders.  Knowledge is required in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures. Experienced in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
To be eligible for this position, you must possess the following education:  

EDUCATION:  Must have a high school diploma or general education development (GED) diploma.  An undergraduate degree from an accredited college/university is optimum. Must have Federal Aviation Administration certifications awarded from accredited civilian aviation programs or must have aviation certifications from accredited military aviation schools.

You MUST provide transcripts or other documentation to support your Educational claims.

Do you meet these requirements and do(es) your supporting document(s) adjudicate your educational claim(s)?
 Yes
 No


4.
To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of CW4 through CW5.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?

 Yes
 No


5.
To be eligible for this position, you must currently possess the classification MOS 155E or another branches compatible Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) or Career Management Field (CMF).

Do you currently possess such compatible classification?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙