Position Title
Tax Law Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13054462C-APN-0987-15 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the Independent Office of Appeals business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AL1213) 417 20th St N, Birmingham, AL
 AB. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AR. (AZ0058) 300 W Congress, Tucson, AZ
 AS. (CA7803) 700 P St, Fresno, CA
 AT. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AU. (CA0273) 501 W Ocean Blvd, Long Beach, CA
 AV. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AW. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AX. (CA8050) 290 North D St, San Bernardino, CA
 AY. (CA6109) 701 B St, San Diego, CA
 AZ. (CA8207) 100 First St, San Francisco, CA
 BA. (CA6116) 55 S Market St, San Jose, CA
 BB. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 BC. (CT3323) 333 E River Dr, Hartford, CT
 BD. (CT0061) 150 Court St, New Haven, CT
 BE. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 BF. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 BG. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 BH. (FL2533) 1000 S Pine Island Rd, Plantation, FL
 BI. (FL2971) 2203 N Lois Ave, Tampa, FL
 BJ. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 BK. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 BL. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BM. (IA0112) 210 Walnut St, Des Moines, IA
 BN. (KY3123) 7300 Turfway Rd, Florence, KY
 BO. (KY0086) 600 Dr Martin L King, Louisville, KY
 B. (LA0034) 600 S Maestri Pl, New Orleans, LA
 C. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 D. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 E. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 F. (MA0153) 10 Causeway, Boston, MA
 G. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 H. (MI2210) 3251 N Evergreen NE, Grand Rapids, MI
 I. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 J. (MS0083) 100 W Capitol, Jackson, MS
 K. (MO1840) 2345 Grand, Kansas City, MO
 L. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 M. (NE0051) 1616 Capitol Ave, Omaha, NE
 N. (NV7516) 110 N City Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV
 O. (NH6185) 75 Portsmouth Blvd, Portsmouth, NH
 P. (NJ4555) 1 Newark Center, Newark, NJ
 Q. (NM1464) 6200 Jefferson St NE, Albuquerque, NM
 R. (NY7340) 130 S Elmwood Ave, Buffalo, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Avenue, Holtsville, NY
 T. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 U. (NY6412) 1600 Stewart Ave, Westbury, NY
 V. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 W. (NC2668) 4905 Koger Blvd, Greensboro, NC
 X. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 Y. (OH0208) 200 N High St, Columbus, OH
 Z. (OH2320) 6450 Rockside Woods Blvd, Independence, OH
 AA. (OK1356) 55 N Robinson, Oklahoma City, OK
 AC. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 AD. (PA0277) 600 Arch St, Philadelphia, PA
 AE. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 AF. (SC0068) 1835 Assembly St, Columbia, SC
 AG. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AH. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 AI. (TX0227) 300 E Eighth St, Austin, TX
 AJ. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 AK. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AL. (TX2982) 8122 Datapoint Dr, San Antonio, TX
 AM. (UT1431)2484 S Washington Blvd, Ogden, UT
 AN. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AO. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AP. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AQ. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Specialized Experience GS-15:
You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Legal, tax accounting, or other experience that required knowledge of Federal tax laws, regulations, precedent decisions, or other areas related to the position to be filled. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
- Preparing, reviewing, or applying rulings, advisory letters, memoranda, etc. related to Federal taxation.
- Analyzing and adjudicating tax claims, appeals, settlement offers, or similar work related to Federal tax operations.
- Work as an attorney that required legal research, analysis, and preparation of briefs or similar documents interpreting laws and regulations.
- Work as an accountant, auditor, or investigator that required application of Federal tax accounting principles and/or the Internal Revenue Code and related laws.

AND
You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include:
- Applying disclosure and privacy rules as they relate to tax law and organizational policies.
- Justifying or resolving administrative and/or policy matters with stakeholders of conflicting interests
- Researching tax laws, regulations, procedures and policies and applying them across a multi-level organization.
- Determining the impact of laws and proposed rulings on organizational procedures, operations, and current regulations.
- Identifying and implementing alternative courses of action and making decisions that arise from unforeseen circumstances.
- Coordinating with the Chief Counsel's Office and relevant Congressional Committees to smooth the implementation of decisions, proposals, and/or recommendations.
- Analyzing the impact of federal court decisions and initiating policy or rule changes with Chief Counsel and other stakeholders as needed.
- Responding to and participating in program audits with external stakeholders.
- Developing and presenting position papers on legal or technical issues to executive staff to inform decision makers and provide recommendations and options.
- Drafting, editing, finalizing responses to inquiries from executive or legislative branch correspondence.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
Specialized Experience GS-15:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Legal, tax accounting, or other experience that required knowledge of Federal tax laws, regulations, precedent decisions, or other areas related to the position to be filled. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
• Preparing, reviewing, or applying rulings, advisory letters, memoranda, etc. related to Federal taxation.
• Analyzing and adjudicating tax claims, appeals, settlement offers, or similar work related to Federal tax operations.
• Work as an attorney that required legal research, analysis, and preparation of briefs or similar documents interpreting laws and regulations.
• Work as an accountant, auditor, or investigator that required application of Federal tax accounting principles and/or the Internal Revenue Code and related laws.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service applying disclosure and privacy rules as they relate to tax law and organizational policies?

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service justifying or resolving administrative and/or policy matters with stakeholders of conflicting interests?

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service researching tax laws, regulations, procedures and policies and applying them across a multi-level organization?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service determining the impact of laws and proposed rulings on organizational procedures, operations, and current regulations?

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service identifying and implementing alternative courses of action and making decisions that arise from unforeseen circumstances?

 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service coordinating with the Chief Counsel's Office and relevant Congressional Committees to smooth the implementation of decisions, proposals, and/or recommendations?

 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service analyzing the impact of federal court decisions and initiating policy or rule changes with Chief Counsel and other stakeholders as needed?

 Yes
 No


9.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service responding to and participating in program audits with external stakeholders?

 Yes
 No


10.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service developing and presenting position papers on legal or technical issues to executive staff to inform decision makers and provide recommendations and options?

 Yes
 No


11.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service drafting, editing, finalizing responses to inquiries from executive or legislative branch correspondence?

 Yes
 No


12.
Which of the following activities have you performed?

 A. Analyzed proposed legislation and regulations and advised Director/Technical Guidance on areas of concern or conflict.
 B. Analyzed processes to determine the approaches and techniques to use in the development of a process improvement or written guidance
 C. Evaluated the impact or effect of new legislation and court decisions on current work streams.
 D. Evaluated recommendations from external stakeholders (TAS, TIGTA, GAO, CFO) and drafted proposed recommendations to implement changes agreed to by Executive staff.
 E. None of the above


13.
Which of the following project activities have you performed?

 A. Identified the resources necessary to complete a task or request.
 B. Led a project team with breaking high-level requirements down into actionable tasks and assigned the resources necessary to complete the tasks and create feedback loops to monitor progress
 C. Created schedules and corresponding deliverables and dates to complete a task or request.
 D. Interviewed stakeholders to obtain business or technical requirements and drafted written requirements documents to present to decision makers.
 E. None of the above.


14.
Which one of the following best describes your level of experience supporting internal and external activities of the Appeals organization?

 Advised senior managers, executives and/or analysts on legal, technical or procedural matters impacting the Appeals organization to promote maximum support for program goals.
 Advised other personnel on legal, technical or procedural matters impacting the Appeals organization to promote maximum support for program goals.
 Worked as an analyst, with program/policy responsibility impacting the Appeals organization to promote support for program goals.
 Worked on legal, technical or procedural matters that widely impact program goals of the Appeals organization.
 None of the above


15.
Which of the following stakeholders have you coordinated with to complete tax-related work?

 A. Taxpayers
 B. Chief Counsel
 C. Decision makers at other internal business units/divisions
 D. Other Federal agencies
 E. Professional organizations (e.g., American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, American Bar Association)
 F. Tax software companies/contractors
 G. None of the above


16.
Which of the following best describes your experience influencing or negotiating to arrive at a desired outcome?

 A. Participated in workgroup meetings and advocated for a position that was ultimately not adopted.
 B. Negotiated with others to obtain mutually agreeable solutions by resolving differences.
 C. Influenced decision makers to agree with a position by identifying the strength of one position over another position.
 D. Networked with others to build alliances to get others to accept my position.
 E. Influenced decisions that resulted in policy and/or established processes for new or existing programs.
 F. None of the above


17.
Do you have experience negotiating with multi-organizational, functional, and/or operational areas to assure functional plans meet expectations to achieve program goals?

 Yes
 No


18.
Select all the functions you have performed regarding strategic planning.

 A. Integrated the interests of key internal and external stakeholders when developing strategic business plans.
 B. Worked with division executives and senior leaders on strategic business plans
 C. Communicated strategic plans to management to increase ownership, buy-in and championing of the plan setting actionable items and deadlines.
 D. Familiarized employees with contents of a strategic plan to promote an understanding of the link between human resources initiatives and business goals.
 E. None of the above


19.
Which of the following describes your experience independently conducting/leading analyses of programs and/or analyses of work processes from collected data and providing strategic business recommendations?

 A. Conducted or led detailed analyses of work processes that required coordination to provide recommendations to meet business objectives and resolved problems effecting the efficiency of operations.
 B. Acted as the primary point of contact for your function on an external audit (TIGTA, GAO, TAS, CFO) responded to recommendations, obtained executive concurrence and implemented resulting changes with internal stakeholders.
 C. Provided guidance, direction, resources and technical or legal expertise to the execution of a functional training plan.
 D. None of the above


20.
What methods have you used to ensure the accuracy of the work of others?

 A. Became a subject matter expert on current tax law developments
 B. Consulted policy and counsel personnel or key third parties on current trends, developments, and activities
 C. Independently researched technical authorities for assigned programs and commitments
 D. Participated in operational reviews, briefings, case studies and other reporting that analyzed program work.
 E. None of the above


21.
Identify the types of customers you have collaborated with in the development and delivery of a functional or division level strategic plan?

 A. Head of office, executives, senior managers and senior staff
 B. External customers and stakeholders (i.e., congressional liaisons, practitioner organizations).
 C. Co-workers, technical experts, and/or program/policy analysts.
 D. Contractor and consulting teams.
 E. Direct Reports on a team under my leadership.
 F. None of the above.


22.
Which best represents your experience with strategic planning.
 Advised or communicated a broad-scale strategic plan to high level executives and stakeholders.
 Designed and implemented a strategic plan across a division which required me to communicate and integrate goals cross-functionally.
 Effectively managed my own team or programs and consistently sought process improvements or achieved objectives
 Assisted in creating a strategic business plan and/or communicated strategic goals to employees and staff.
 None of the above


23.
Which of the following describes your leadership experience?

 A. Successfully led efforts to address issues where precedents do not exist and establish new policies and approaches.
 B. Led the evaluation of agency missions, goals, programs, and business processes to develop and implement functional-specific best practices and/or policy updates.
 C. Led assignments across multiple business units that improved the efficiency and effectiveness of organizational goals.
 D. Provided leadership expertise as the co-leader of a cross functional project or program team that implemented changes or process improvements to achieve stated goals or objectives.
 E. None of the above


24.
Select all the following which describe your experience applying tax law to Appeals issues where a legal precedent was not clearly defined

 A. Provided written advice or direction in connection with controversial legal tax matters on Appeals issues.
 B. Participated as the subject matter expert on behalf of a senior leader or executive and resolved technical or legal matters involving alternative dispute resolution or an elevated inquiry.
 C. Analyzed new or proposed legislation affecting Appeals work streams and provided briefing documents to senior leaders and/or executives.
 D. Participated as a panel speaker at tax forum or external tax professional event addressing emerging or novel Appeals work stream approaches.
 E. None of the above


25.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙