Position Title
Assistant Inspector General for Audits & Evaluations
Agency
Election Assistance Commission
Announcement Number
EAC-26-EXE-12914007HH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
For items 1, 2, & 4-8, please read the following statements carefully. Your response to the following questions will determine whether you will be eligible for this position or not. If you respond "No" to any question in this section, you will not be eligible for consideration for this position.


1.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire will be true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire will be true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


2.
Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to serve an initial and possible subsequent trial period?
 Yes
 No


4.
Select the ONE response that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates you meet the Basic Qualification Requirement for Assistant Inspector General for Audits & Evaluations.
 I have a degree in auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting.
 I do not have education of the type and/or amount described in the items above.
 Combination of education and experience: I have at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.


5.
This position has a Selective Placement Factor (SPF) that must be met in order to do the work of the position. Please certify whether or not you meet the SPF for this position. This experience must be clearly documented in your resume.

Demonstrates experience leading and managing complex performance audits of federal programs and/or operations in accordance with Government Auditing Standards (Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards/GAGAS/Yellow Book).
 Yes
 No


For AD-0511-00: Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience? Specialized experience is defined as experience that is in or directly related to the line of work of this position and has equipped you with the knowledge and competencies to successfully perform the duties of this position. More specifically, this requirement involves experience in performing ALL the following duties (i.e., you must be able to respond 'Yes' to ALL statements below and must be supported in resume). A. Yes B. No


6.
I have at least one year of experience in supervising or serving as a lead over audit staff, including assigning work, reviewing audit documentation and reports, and ensuring compliance with applicable auditing standards and internal quality control procedures.

 Yes
 No


7.
I have at least one year of experience in drafting audit reports that present findings, conclusions, and recommendations supported by sufficient, appropriate evidence.

 Yes
 No


8.
I have at least one year of experience in briefing management officials on audit results and participating in discussions to resolve findings and recommendations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙