Position Title
Financial Management Specialist (Internal Controls Specialist)
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26DE12956158ZA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, Performance Appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


2.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


3.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To qualify for this position, you must have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 grade level, which has provided you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Financial Management Specialist (Internal Controls Specialist) at the GS-14 grade level.

Specialized experience includes:
Experience leading internal control testing programs, including evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls to ensure compliance with financial management policies and procedures; and
Experience conducting risk-based assessments to identify internal control weaknesses and provide corrective action to strengthen compliance; and
Experience supporting financial statement and audit activities, including conducting internal control reviews, tracking deliverables, and overseeing remediation efforts to resolve findings.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level and meet all of the specialized experience listed above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


2.
As noted in the vacancy announcement, your ratings in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
Understand this warning; and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙