Position Title
Contract Price/Cost Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MD-26-12944814-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen-Out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4 Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) and I meet at least 2 of the 3 statements listed. Specialized Experience is defined as: Experience evaluating contractor proposals, including performing detailed analysis on individual elements of cost and fee/profit, analyzing cost factors and trends, and developing documentation to substantiate government cost/negotiation positions. Experience applying Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) part 15, Department of Defense (DoD) Supplement part 215, and associated statutes, regulations, policies and procedures. Experience with use of negotiation techniques and the ability to meet and deal with representatives of the private sector and with Government experts of managers sufficient to procure extensive services and complex systems and equipment. Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


2.
I meet the following basic education requirements to qualify for the 1102 series.
 I have a Bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. I have included my transcript with my application.
 I have served as a contracting officer with authority to award or administer contracts in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold on or before September 30, 2000. This exception does not apply to new hires into an 1102 position. I have listed this experience in my resume.
 I have served in an 1102 position or as a Service member in a similar occupational specialty on or before September 30, 2000. This exception does not apply to new hires into an 1102 position. I have listed this experience in my resume.
 I am enlisted member of the Contingency Contracting Force (CCF). This exemption only applies to CCF members in their current or future CCF positions. The baccalaureate degree exemption does not apply to current CCF members seeking employment within DoD as an 1102. This exception does not apply to new hires into an 1102 position. I have listed this experience in my resume.
 My education/experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙