Position Title
Aircraft Flight Instructor
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-DE-13011792-AES Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


3.
This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent; AND
You occupy (or have been separated from) a career or career-conditional (tenure group I or II) competitive service position of any agency; OR
You occupy (or have been separated from) an excepted service appointment without time limit, who has been provided by law with both noncompetitive appointment eligibility and selection priority for competitive service position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.


3.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


4.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 Yes
 No


6.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Performing professional educational work as a Flight Instructor; Conducting ground and flight training, pilot and aircrew evaluations; Managing and developing current and new course materials, new hire assessments, and student and pilot records management; and, performing flight training and aircrew evaluations.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


7.
In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 Yes
 No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.


8.
When U.S. Customs and Border Protection completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 A. I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 B. I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


9.
You must possess and provide proof of an FAA Medical Certificate First or Second Class. Either one must be dated within the last 12 calendar months and valid through the closing date of this announcement. However, at the time of your Flight Assessment you MUST have an FAA 1st Class Medical Certificate dated within the previous 12 calendar months. Military flight medicals cannot be used - you must possess an FAA 1st or 2nd class Medical certificate.

Select the statement that best describes your FAA medical certificate.
 I possess a current FAA Medical Certificate First Class and will submit a legible copy as part of my application.
 I possess a current FAA Medical Certificate Second Class and will submit a legible copy as part of my application. I also understand that I MUST have an FAA Medical Certificate First Class dated within the previous 12 calendar months by the time of my Flight Assessment.
 I do not possess either of the FAA medical certificates described above and understand that I am not qualified for the position at this time.


10.
Which of the following statements best describes your pilot certification and ratings?
 I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate with the following ratings: airplane, single engine or multiengine land with instrument; and rotorcraft helicopter with instrument.
 I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate for Airplane single engine or multiengine land with the instrument rating.
 I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate for Rotorcraft Helicopter with the instrument rating.
 I do not possess any of the above described certificates or ratings.


11.
Which of the following statements best describes your Flight Instructor certification and ratings?
 I possess a current FAA Flight Instructor Certificate with the following ratings: airplane, single engine or multiengine land with instrument -or- rotorcraft helicopter with the instrument rating. I WILL UPLOAD a copy of both front and back at time of application.
 I do not possess any of the above described certificates or ratings.


12.
Does your flight log reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time (100 hours of airplane and/or helicopter within the last 12 months) including 250 Pilot-in-Command and 75 instrument/night hours?
(NOTE: For inservice placement actions, up to one-half of the flight hours may be waived provided the individual's total background reflects the ability to perform the duties of the position safely. For positions flying both helicopters and airplanes, at least one-fourth of the total hours must be in either category of aircraft.)

 Yes, my flight log reflects a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time. I am uploading or faxing a legible copy of the last page of my flight log with my application.
 No, my flight log does NOT reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time, but I AM eligible for a waiver. I am uploading or faxing a legible copy of the last page of my flight log with my application.
 No, my flight log does NOT reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time and I AM NOT eligible for a waiver.


13.
Have you completed 100 flight hours in the last 12 months?
 Yes, I WILL upload or fax a legible copy of my flight log(s) by the closing date of the announcement as proof of meeting this requirement.
 No, I have not completed 100 flight hours within the last 12 months however, I AM eligible for a flight hour waiver. I am uploading or faxing legible copies of my flight logs with my application.
 No, I have not completed 100 flight hours within the last 12 months and I am not eligible for a flight hour waiver.


14.
Do you have at least 500 flight hours of instructor time?  
 Yes. I understand that I must provide proof of these flight hours at time of application.
 I do not possess the 500 flight hours of instructor time described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙