Position Title
SHEET METAL MECHANIC (AIRCRAFT) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12854762-AF-25-048 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 20, 2025 to Jan 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 MXS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 MXS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E5 or lower)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-3806-10 Sheet Metal Mechanic (Aircraft).
 I HAVE experience or training that has provided me with the ability to plan, manufacture, and install cylindrical, square, or rectangular-shaped objects that have easily constructed fastenings such as single and double-hem edges and single, double or grooved seams.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-3806-10 Sheet Metal Mechanic (Aircraft).
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training 1) in planning, layout, and construction skills to manufacture items and systems with dovetailed seams, set-in-bottom seams, burred-bottom seams, or wired or lock seams, 2) using more complicated shop tools and equipment, 3) using metals including stainless steel, copper sheet, magnesium, honeycomb material and alloys, and 4) demonstrating the use of more complicated mathematical calculations and complicated measuring instruments.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙