Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Fitness Specialist CFL/FEP)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12828761 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Saturday, November 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Specialist GEI/CFL position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Does your resume have documented experience working in a fitness program showing ability to instruct a group exercise program and/or a certified personal trainer?
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years of documented training and experience do you have to manage fitness and associated programs independently? Experience must include familiarity/instruction using a wide range of fitness equipment to include resistance machines, cardio equipment and free weights.
 3+years
 1-2 years
 1 year or less
 No documented experience


3.
This position requires a Certified Instructor/Trainer certificate to include a Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation CPR certificate and First Aid certificate, and also having the ability to get certified as a Navy Exercise Leader in order to teach Command Fitness Leader Course. Have you uploaded proof of the required certification(s)?
 Yes, I have uploaded a copy of my certification(s)
 No, I do not have any of the above certification(s).


4.
Do you possess a current driver's license?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have a bachelor's degree in recreation with a major in exercise physiology, physical education, or related field with specific training and understanding of all forms of exercise, nutrition and wellness or coursework towards such a degree?
 Yes, I have a bachelor's degree in one of the above fields.
 No, I don't have a conferred degree, but I have completed courses towards my degree.
 I do not have a degree in the above field, but I have documented experience on my resume.
 I do not have either degree or experience in the above field.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙