Position Title
Supervisory Medical Instrument Technician (Anesthesia)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12921478-26-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Medical Instrument Technician (Anesthesia) GS-0649-10 position located in Nashville, Tennessee. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position. To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic minimum requirements below as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Supervisory Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English.  Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience: You must have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, GS-9. which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. Typically these duties include assigning and evaluating the work of subordinate staff; providing anesthesia technician services in more complex cases; reviewing and making recommendations regarding new and emerging procedures; providing instruction and training to new staff; interviewing candidates for positions; recommending selections, advancements, promotions; evaluating performance; taking disciplinary action when necessary; and identifying educational or training needs.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs: Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities for the GS-9. 

1. Knowledge and comprehensive understanding of laboratory testing procedures to include maintenance, calibration, and quality control procedures. This includes the ability to perform these lab tests accurately and correctly.
2. Advanced knowledge of electronics and anesthesia equipment with skill in repairing and maintaining this equipment and repairing complex problems.
3. Comprehensive knowledge of central venous and pulmonary artery (Swan-Ganz) catheterization procedures including measuring cardiac outputs and intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation procedures (i.e., balloon pump).
4. Knowledge and ability to assist with airway management techniques.
5. Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
6. Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.
7. Ability to manage and supervise employees.
8. Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.

Do you meet the requirements described above or do you meet the Grandfathering Provisions listed below?

Grandfathering Provision: All persons employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard (June 7, 2012) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Such employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure/certification/registration, may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. 
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
If an employee who was retained in an occupation listed in 38 U.S.C. § 7401(3) under this provision leaves that occupation, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.
 Yes, I meet the requirements described above
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision. I was employed by the VHA on the effective date of the Qualification Standard, June 7, 2012, as a GS-9 or higher AND have been continuously employed as a GS-9 or higher Medical Instrument Technician since June 7, 2012.
 No, I do not meet the requirements described above or the Grandfathering Provision


3.
KSA Requirements: In addition to meeting the core competencies and experience at the next lower grade level, GS-9, candidates must also demonstrate all of the KSAs below:

1. Knowledge of the more complex procedures and techniques in the practice of anesthesiology such as extracorporeal blood salvage, washing and return to patient (also known as autotransfusion or cell saving) and arterial and/or venous cannulation for the establishment of arterial pressure monitoring or intravenous fluid/medication delivery.
2. Ability to plan and assist in the establishment of a completely integrated treatment and procedure program. 
3. Ability to evaluate new products and equipment and make recommendations concerning developments which would improve operations.
4. Ability to manage the fiscal matters of the functions supervised (which would include fund controls, contracts and equipment expenditures), forecast resource and equipment needs and administer the allocated budget.
5. Knowledge of and ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties which would include responsibility for assignment of work to be performed; performance evaluation; selection of staff; and recommendation of awards, advancements and, when appropriate, disciplinary actions.

Do you meet the KSA requirements described above?
 Yes, I meet the KSA requirements
 No, I do not meet the KSA requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Licensure or Certification: Licensure or Certification is not required for this occupation; however, it is strongly desirable at GS-6 or above as evidence of possession of the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Anesthesia technician certification through the American Society of Anesthesia Technologists and Technicians (ASATT) is highly desired. Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are also desirable for employees at this level. Participation in recognized professional organizations as a Board examiner, in the development of curricula for training, or testing for the Board is evidence of competence.

Do you currently have any of these certificates?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙