Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC) (Director of Business Technology and Innovation)
Agency
Export-Import Bank of the United States
Announcement Number
DH26-AR-12935472-OCIO Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen:  Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your resume and supporting documents must support the responses you select (Failure to provide a response below may result in further lack of consideration for this announcement).


1.
Do you have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the following competencies:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services;
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-14 grade level)
 My experience is not reflected in the description above.


2.
Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service or other equivalent pay system that has equipped you to perform the major duties of this position? This specialized experience includes:
Experience serving as a senior program manager over an enterprise IT portfolio (custom-developed and COTS applications), ensuring successful delivery/operations of e-commerce, underwriting, asset management, accounting, and data warehouse solutions aligned to agency/enterprise priorities.
Experience establishing and enforcing secure engineering practices and integrating cybersecurity requirements across design, development, implementation, sustainment, and system disposition-embedding DevSecOps and managing risk, incident response, resiliency, and recovery for enterprise systems.
Experience developing business systems and IT rules/requirements (baseline/target architectures) and ensuring stakeholder security requirements are adequately addressed across enterprise architecture (reference models, segment/solution architecture) for mission and business processes.
Experience leading long/short-range operational planning and managing resources by overseeing the Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC) deliverables, budgets, procurement/contract management, and monitoring fiscal/administrative controls to support major IT programs and services.
 Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-15 grade level)
 My experience is not reflected in the description above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and all supporting materials, including my resume, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙