Position Title
WILDLIFE BIOLOGIST
Agency
U.S. Marine Corps
Announcement Number
DE-12947722-26-RVF Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 28, 2026 to May 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo


2.
Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
TIME IN GRADE
Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past.

To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/
 No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim. If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from MyBiz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙