Position Title
MWR Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12966877 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 25, 2026 to Jun 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Morale Welfare Recreation Director - CAT A/B/C position aboard Naval Station Everett. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. 

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below



1.
Do you possess a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation, Physical Education, Hospitality or Business Administration from an accredited university, plus two years of related experience OR five years of relative experience?
 I have a four-year undergraduate degree or higher in Recreation, Physical Education, Hospitality or Business Administration, plus two years of related experience
 I have 5 years of related experience.
 I do not have a four-year degree in Recreation, Physical Education, Hospitality or Business Administration OR 5 years of related experience.


2.
Incumbent must be capable of organizing and operating Sports, Fitness, Aquatics; Community Recreation and Food, Beverage & Entertainment (CAT A/B/C) programs simultaneously. Please share your level of experience with multiple programs.
 I have at least 2 years of supervisory experience in two out of the three listed programs in a DoD or other civilian organization.
 I have at least 2 years of supervisory experience in one out of the three listed programs in a DoD or other civilian organization.
 I do not have supervisory experience, but I have worked in these programs
 I have less than 2 years of supervisory experience in any of the listed programs in a DoD or other civilian organization.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


3.
This position requires the incumbent to have strong skills in written and verbal communication, as they will be the liaison with top management at all levels in the organization.  This includes presentations/briefings with senior leadership, collaboration with supervisors, and daily communication with employees.  Please describe how many years of experience you have in this comptetency.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


4.
Incumbent must be capable of developing and executing budgets for NAF and APF Morale, Welfare and Recreation budgets for review and approval. Please share your level of experience.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙