Position Title
INTERDISCIPLINARY
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12924711-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


5.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0807 - Landscape Architecture
 C. 0808 - Architecture
 D. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 E. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Landscape Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in landscape architecture or landscape design. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that included one year of experience for each year short of graduation. My experience has been under professional leadership and guidance of such character and diversity as to be a satisfactory substitute for the required education and included original landscape design. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect?s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineer at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all 3 of the following: 1. Creating Acquisition Request for Proposal (RFP) documents for A&E projects by coordinating planning, design, cost engineering, and construction considerations. 2. Developing cost estimates for A&E construction contracts. AND 3. Negotiating and/or modifications to A&E construction contracts.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


5.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are managing a $45M barracks construction project that is currently in the design phase. During your monthly review, you discover that the design team has fallen two weeks behind schedule due to unexpected geotechnical issues, and the architectural firm is requesting a 15% budget increase for additional soil analysis. The customer is pressuring for the original completion date to meet their training schedule, and your district commander expects you to maintain the approved budget. How do you proceed?

 Convene an immediate stakeholder meeting to assess all options, analyze the cost-benefit of expediting design versus accepting delays, negotiate with the customer on realistic timeline adjustments, and develop a comprehensive recovery plan that balances schedule, budget, and quality requirements while documenting all decisions and impacts.
 Approve the budget increase for soil analysis to resolve technical issues properly, work with the design team to compress the remaining design schedule through parallel work streams, and prepare a detailed briefing for the customer explaining the technical necessity while proposing mitigation strategies for the training schedule impact.
 Reject the budget increase and direct the design team to proceed with existing geotechnical data, implement overtime work to recover the schedule delay, and inform the customer that the project will proceed as originally planned while closely monitoring for any technical issues that may arise during construction.
 Request emergency funding from district reserves to cover the budget increase, instruct the design team to work weekends to recover lost time, and assure the customer that both original schedule and budget will be maintained without conducting a thorough impact analysis of these decisions.
 Immediately halt all design work until the geotechnical issues are fully resolved, refuse any budget modifications, and inform the customer that the project timeline is indefinitely postponed until all technical uncertainties are eliminated and additional funding is secured through normal channels.


2.
You receive the monthly A-E progress report for a $25M medical facility project showing 65% design completion, but your independent schedule analysis indicates the design should be at 75% based on elapsed time and milestones. The A-E firm reports they are on schedule, but you notice several critical design reviews have been postponed, and the structural engineering drawings are significantly behind the architectural plans. The construction start date is six months away. What is your response?

 Request a detailed breakdown of remaining design tasks from the A-E firm, compare their projections against your baseline schedule, and implement weekly progress reviews to monitor critical path activities while preparing contingency plans for potential construction delays.
 Terminate the A-E contract for schedule non-compliance, begin the process to hire a replacement firm, and inform the customer that the project will be delayed by at least one year while new design services are procured and the design process restarts.
 Schedule an immediate progress meeting with the A-E firm to reconcile the schedule discrepancies, conduct a detailed review of actual deliverables versus planned milestones, identify specific bottlenecks in the structural design process, and develop a recovery plan with clear accountability measures and revised interim deadlines.
 Accept the A-E firm's assessment that they are on schedule, but increase your monitoring frequency to bi-weekly reviews and request that they prioritize the structural engineering work to align with the architectural progress while maintaining the original construction start date.
 Immediately notify the customer of potential delays based on your analysis, demand that the A-E firm provide daily progress updates, and begin exploring options to hire additional structural engineers without first attempting to resolve the discrepancies with the current team.


3.
During a routine project coordination call for a $60M training facility, the customer mentions in passing that their funding authorization may be reduced by 20% in the next fiscal year due to budget cuts, but they haven't received official confirmation yet. They ask you not to take any action until they know more. However, you realize this potential reduction would significantly impact the project scope and timeline, and design work is currently progressing on the full scope. How do you handle this situation?

 Continue with the current design scope as requested by the customer, but document the conversation and potential risk in your project files, and increase the frequency of budget discussions in future coordination meetings to stay informed of any developments.
 Acknowledge the customer's request for discretion while explaining your obligation to plan for potential impacts, work with them to develop contingency scenarios for scope reduction, and coordinate with your design team to identify logical breakpoints in the design that could accommodate budget reductions without compromising the overall project integrity.
 Immediately halt all design work that could be affected by the potential budget reduction, inform your district leadership of the funding uncertainty, and wait for official confirmation from the customer before proceeding with any further design activities.
 Ignore the customer's concerns since no official notification has been received, continue the design work at full scope without any contingency planning, and assume the funding issue will resolve itself without requiring any project adjustments.
 Respect the customer's request to wait for official confirmation, but begin internal planning for potential scope reductions by identifying which project elements could be deferred or eliminated, and prepare preliminary cost estimates for various scenarios without alerting the broader project team.


4.
Your $35M research facility project is approaching the 90% design milestone, but you've identified that the specialized laboratory equipment procurement has a 16-week lead time that wasn't properly accounted for in the original schedule. This equipment must be installed before final construction activities can be completed. The current schedule shows construction completion in 12 weeks after the 90% design milestone, but the equipment delay would push completion 4 weeks beyond the customer's required occupancy date. What action do you take?

 Request emergency procurement procedures to reduce equipment lead times, authorize overtime construction work to accelerate the schedule, and assure the customer that the original completion date will be maintained regardless of the additional costs involved.
 Direct the contractor to begin equipment procurement immediately using preliminary specifications from the 90% design, accept the risk of potential design changes, and work to compress other construction activities to minimize the overall schedule impact.
 Continue with the current schedule without modifications, assume the equipment can be installed after construction completion during the commissioning phase, and inform the customer that any delays are the responsibility of the design team for inadequate planning.
 Immediately analyze the critical path to identify opportunities for parallel procurement and construction activities, work with the contractor to develop a phased construction approach that allows equipment installation concurrent with other work, and negotiate with vendors for expedited delivery while preparing the customer for potential schedule adjustments with mitigation options.
 Revise the project schedule to reflect the realistic equipment lead times, coordinate with the customer to adjust the occupancy date by 4 weeks, and implement enhanced schedule monitoring to prevent similar issues in the remaining project phases.


5.
You need to negotiate an internal agreement with the Pacific Ocean Division for them to provide design services for a $40M barracks project. They have the specialized expertise your project requires, but they're requesting a 25% overhead rate, which is significantly higher than your district's standard 18% rate. They justify this by citing their specialized staff and unique design standards. Your project budget was developed using the standard rate, and the customer is cost-sensitive. How do you approach this negotiation?

 Immediately agree to their 25% overhead rate without negotiation to expedite the agreement process, absorb the additional costs from your project contingency funds, and proceed with the design services without informing the customer of the increased costs.
 Reject their overhead rate as excessive and demand they match your district's standard 18% rate, threaten to seek design services elsewhere if they don't comply, and insist that internal agreements should not include premium pricing regardless of specialized expertise.
 Request a detailed breakdown of their overhead calculation to understand the cost drivers, explore options to reduce the scope of specialized services to lower overall costs, and negotiate a compromise rate that balances their expertise needs with your budget constraints.
 Conduct a detailed analysis of the value proposition including the specialized expertise benefits, compare costs against hiring external A-E services, prepare alternative cost-sharing scenarios, and negotiate a tiered overhead structure that reflects actual specialized work versus standard design services while documenting the technical justification for any premium costs.
 Accept their 25% overhead rate but negotiate additional deliverables or enhanced services to justify the premium cost, and work with your customer to secure additional funding to cover the increased design costs while emphasizing the technical benefits.


6.
You're developing cost estimates for a design agreement with another district for a complex $75M multi-purpose training facility. The receiving district has provided a rough scope of work, but many technical requirements are still undefined. They need a cost estimate within one week for their budget planning, but you know that a detailed estimate would require at least three weeks of analysis. The project includes specialized simulation equipment and unique structural requirements that your district has limited experience with. How do you proceed?

 Develop a parametric cost estimate based on available data with clearly defined assumptions and uncertainty ranges, identify the key cost drivers that need further definition, provide a preliminary estimate with explicit caveats about accuracy levels, and establish a timeline for refining the estimate as more technical details become available.
 Request a one-week extension to gather more technical information, develop a rough order of magnitude estimate based on comparable projects, and provide the estimate with significant contingency factors to account for the technical uncertainties.
 Provide a quick estimate based on square footage and general facility types without detailed analysis, include a standard contingency percentage, and advise that the estimate should be considered preliminary pending further technical development.
 Create a high-level estimate using historical data from similar projects with appropriate escalation factors, clearly document all assumptions and limitations, and provide the estimate with a recommendation for a formal detailed estimate once the technical requirements are better defined.
 Decline to provide any cost estimate until all technical requirements are fully defined and detailed scope of work is available, regardless of their timeline needs, and insist that accurate estimates cannot be developed without complete information.


7.
During negotiations for a design services agreement with another district, a dispute arises over responsibility for environmental compliance costs. The receiving district claims these costs should be included in your design fee, while your district maintains they are separate customer responsibilities. Both districts have valid interpretations of the original scope language, and the disagreement is delaying a critical project. You need to conduct a findings of fact and draft a resolution. How do you approach this?

 Examine the original scope language and compare it to standard district practices, research similar agreements to identify precedents, and prepare a findings of fact that clarifies the ambiguous language while proposing a cost-sharing arrangement that addresses both districts' concerns.
 Avoid taking a position on the dispute, draft a findings of fact that simply restates both positions without analysis, and recommend that higher authority resolve the disagreement without providing professional judgment on the merits of each position.
 Review all relevant documentation including original scope statements, standard practices, and precedent agreements, interview key personnel from both districts to understand their positions, analyze the cost implications of each interpretation, and draft a findings of fact document that objectively presents both positions with a recommended resolution based on regulatory requirements and best practices.
 Accept your district's interpretation as correct since you're drafting the agreement, document the receiving district's objections, and prepare a findings of fact that supports your position while offering minor concessions to expedite agreement.
 Document both districts' positions and their supporting rationale, review applicable regulations and policies, and draft a findings of fact that recommends the most cost-effective solution for the overall project while ensuring environmental compliance requirements are met.


8.
You're collecting engineering instructions and design criteria for a $50M medical facility from multiple stakeholders including the customer, medical equipment vendors, regulatory agencies, and your internal technical specialists. You've received conflicting requirements regarding emergency power systems — the customer wants a basic backup generator system, the medical equipment vendor requires uninterruptible power for critical equipment, and your electrical engineer recommends a redundant system for safety. The design team needs clear direction to proceed. How do you resolve this?

 Prioritize the medical equipment vendor requirements since they understand the technical needs best, incorporate the electrical engineer's safety recommendations where feasible, and develop design criteria that ensures medical functionality while explaining budget implications to the customer.
 Organize a technical coordination meeting with all stakeholders to discuss the power system requirements, research applicable codes and standards for medical facilities, analyze the operational and safety implications of each approach, and develop integrated design criteria that meet regulatory requirements while balancing operational needs and budget constraints.
 Conduct separate meetings with each stakeholder to understand their specific requirements and constraints, research medical facility power standards, and develop a tiered power system design criteria that addresses critical equipment needs while providing cost-effective solutions for non-critical systems.
 Instruct the design team to proceed with standard commercial building power systems since medical facility requirements are too complex to resolve quickly, and assume that power system upgrades can be addressed during construction if problems arise.
 Default to the customer's preference since they are funding the project, document the other stakeholders' concerns in the design criteria as optional considerations, and proceed with the basic backup generator system while noting potential operational limitations.


9.
You're managing a $65M training complex project that is 60% complete when you discover that the construction contractor has been charging premium rates for overtime work that wasn't pre-approved, resulting in $2.3M in unauthorized costs. The contractor claims the overtime was necessary to meet schedule milestones, but your review shows much of it was due to their inefficient work sequencing. The project budget has only $1.8M remaining in contingency funds, and the customer expects completion on schedule. How do you address this situation?

 Approve the overtime charges to avoid schedule delays, request additional funding from the customer to cover the overrun, and implement better oversight procedures for future work while accepting that the budget will be exceeded.
 Reject all unauthorized overtime charges, require the contractor to submit a detailed justification for each overtime claim, approve only those directly related to schedule-critical activities, and implement enhanced oversight procedures to prevent future unauthorized expenditures while working within the remaining contingency funds.
 Pay all contractor overtime charges without question to maintain good relationships, absorb the cost overrun from other project accounts, and continue current oversight procedures since questioning contractor decisions might damage working relationships.
 Negotiate a settlement with the contractor to split the unauthorized costs based on legitimate schedule needs versus contractor inefficiency, use available contingency funds to cover the agreed portion, and establish strict pre-approval procedures for any future overtime work.
 Immediately suspend payment for unauthorized overtime charges, conduct a detailed analysis of which overtime was truly necessary versus contractor inefficiency, negotiate with the contractor to absorb costs related to their poor planning, develop a revised work plan that eliminates future unauthorized overtime, and brief the customer on the situation with options for schedule versus budget trade-offs.


10.
During your monthly cost report review for a $45M barracks project, you notice that $180,000 in design costs have been charged to your project for "specialized structural analysis," but you have no record of authorizing this work. The design team leader is unavailable for two weeks due to medical leave, and the costs appear to be related to seismic analysis that may or may not be required for your project location. The finance office is requesting your approval to process payment. How do you handle this situation?

 Immediately approve the payment to avoid delaying the design schedule, assume the structural engineer knows what analysis is required, and trust that the design team leader authorized the work even though you have no documentation.
 Approve the payment since it appears to be legitimate engineering work, but send a memo to the design team leader requesting better communication about scope changes, and implement a requirement for your pre-approval on future specialized analysis work.
 Hold the payment until the design team leader returns to provide clarification, notify the finance office of the delay and reasons, and use the time to research whether seismic analysis is typically required for similar projects in your location.
 Temporarily hold payment pending investigation, review project documentation to determine if seismic analysis was included in the original scope, contact the structural engineer directly to understand the work performed, verify whether the analysis is required by code for your location, and document your findings before making a payment decision.
 Research the project requirements to determine if seismic analysis is necessary, contact available team members to understand the work authorization process, and either approve or reject the payment based on your findings while documenting the rationale for future reference.


11.
Your $80M research facility project is 70% complete when you receive notification that the customer's funding for the final phase may be delayed by six months due to congressional budget issues. You currently have $24M in remaining funds, but $18M of that is needed for equipment procurement that must be ordered within 30 days to meet the construction schedule. Delaying equipment procurement would add $3M in schedule delay costs, but proceeding without funding assurance could leave the project incomplete. How do you manage this situation?

 Immediately assess all funding options including district bridge funding capabilities, analyze the cost implications of various delay scenarios, coordinate with the customer to explore alternative funding sources or phased completion approaches, and develop a comprehensive risk management plan that protects both the project and district financial interests while maintaining maximum flexibility.
 Proceed with equipment procurement using available funds based on the customer's historical reliability, but secure written acknowledgment from the customer of their funding commitment and implement enhanced monitoring of the congressional budget process.
 Work with the customer to secure interim funding commitments or guarantees for the delayed funds, evaluate options for phased equipment procurement to minimize risk exposure, and develop contingency plans for both funding scenarios while keeping equipment vendors informed of potential delays.
 Use district contingency funds to cover the equipment procurement, assume the customer funding will eventually be approved, and continue the project schedule without formal agreements or risk mitigation measures in place.
 Delay all equipment procurement until funding is confirmed, accept the additional $3M in delay costs, and work with the customer to secure supplemental funding to cover the schedule impact costs when their budget is approved.


12.
You need to allocate $2.8M in project funds to various district support offices for a major construction project. The Real Estate office is requesting $800K for land acquisition that's ahead of schedule, Construction Division wants $1.2M for inspection services that won't be needed for three months, and the Environmental office needs $600K for monitoring that's currently underway. Your project cash flow shows you have $2.1M available now, with an additional $700K expected next month. Each office is pressuring for immediate funding to secure their resources. How do you allocate the funds?

 Fund the Environmental office immediately since work is underway, provide partial funding to Real Estate for land acquisition, and schedule Construction Division funding for next month when additional funds are available, while communicating clear timelines to all offices.
 Provide full requested funding to all offices immediately by borrowing against next month's allocation, assume the expected funds will arrive on schedule, and avoid the administrative burden of managing phased payments.
 Fund offices in order of their requests regardless of project timing, provide full funding to Real Estate first, then Environmental, and inform Construction Division they must wait until next month for any funding allocation.
 Allocate available funds proportionally among all three offices based on their requests, require each office to manage their work within the partial funding provided, and distribute remaining funds next month based on actual progress and needs.
 Prioritize funding based on immediate operational needs and project critical path requirements, allocate funds to Real Estate and Environmental offices for current activities, negotiate with Construction Division for phased funding aligned with actual service delivery, and establish clear milestone-based payment schedules for all support offices.


13.
You're attending a pre-design conference for a $55M medical facility without your design team, who are unavailable due to a family emergency. The customer is presenting new requirements for specialized surgical suites that weren't in the original scope, and they're asking for immediate feedback on feasibility and cost impacts. The facility's chief medical officer is emphasizing the critical nature of these requirements for patient safety, while the customer's budget officer is concerned about cost increases. You need to respond professionally without committing to scope changes you're not authorized to approve. How do you handle this situation?

 Listen carefully to the requirements and document them thoroughly, explain that any scope changes require formal evaluation and approval processes, and suggest that the customer submit the requirements in writing for proper technical and cost analysis by the design team.
 Acknowledge the importance of the new requirements for patient safety, explain that you need to coordinate with your design team for technical feasibility and cost analysis, commit to providing a comprehensive response within 48 hours, and suggest scheduling a follow-up meeting with all stakeholders once you have complete information to discuss options and implications.
 Reject the new requirements as outside the original scope, state that no changes can be considered at this stage of the project, and insist that the customer should have identified these needs during the initial planning phase.
 Express understanding of the medical requirements and budget concerns, take detailed notes on the specific needs, explain your authority limitations regarding scope changes, and commit to having your design team provide a preliminary assessment within one week with cost and schedule implications.
 Immediately agree that patient safety is paramount and indicate that the requirements will likely be accommodated, provide rough estimates based on your general knowledge, and assure them that cost impacts will be minimal without conducting proper analysis.


14.
You need to initiate a conference with state environmental regulators, local government officials, and community representatives regarding permit requirements for a $70M training facility that includes live-fire ranges. The state is concerned about groundwater protection, local officials want economic benefits for the community, and residents are worried about noise impacts. Each group has different priorities and some conflicting interests. You need to establish a collaborative framework for moving forward. How do you structure and lead this conference?

 Focus the conference primarily on explaining why the project is necessary and beneficial, present technical information to address environmental concerns, and emphasize the economic benefits while minimizing discussion of potential negative impacts.
 Structure the meeting to address each stakeholder group's concerns systematically, present the project's environmental safeguards and community benefits, facilitate discussion to identify areas of common ground, and establish working groups to develop specific solutions for environmental and community concerns.
 Prepare a comprehensive agenda that addresses each stakeholder's primary concerns, begin the conference by establishing common goals around environmental protection and community benefit, facilitate open discussion of all concerns, present technical data objectively, and work toward developing a collaborative framework that identifies specific actions to address each group's priorities while maintaining project viability.
 Dominate the conference by presenting the project as already approved and non-negotiable, dismiss community concerns as unfounded, and focus solely on explaining the permit requirements that must be met without seeking stakeholder input.
 Open the conference by emphasizing the project's importance to national security, present the environmental protection measures already planned, outline potential economic benefits for the community, and seek input on additional measures that could address remaining concerns.


15.
As the primary point of contact for a $90M multi-phase construction project, you receive a call from the customer's senior leadership expressing serious concerns about project delays and cost overruns they've heard about from unofficial sources. They're demanding an immediate explanation and threatening to escalate to your district commander. However, you know that while there have been some minor schedule adjustments, the rumors are largely exaggerated, and the project is actually performing well within acceptable parameters. How do you respond to this situation?

 Become defensive about the criticism, blame the rumors on disgruntled contractors or competitors, minimize any actual project challenges, and suggest that their concerns are based on misinformation without offering to provide factual clarification.
 Immediately defend the project performance and dismiss the rumors as inaccurate, provide basic status information to prove the project is on track, and suggest that they should rely on official reports rather than unofficial sources for project information.
 Reassure them that the project is performing well, provide a brief overview of actual status versus the rumors they've heard, and offer to schedule a detailed briefing within the next few days to review all project metrics and address any remaining concerns.
 Calmly address their concerns by providing accurate project status information, explain the difference between the rumors and actual project performance, offer to provide detailed written documentation, and suggest establishing more frequent communication to keep them better informed.
 Acknowledge their concerns and request an immediate meeting to provide a comprehensive project briefing, prepare factual data on actual project performance versus rumors, present both challenges and successes objectively, address their specific concerns with supporting documentation, and establish a regular communication schedule to prevent future misinformation issues.


16.
Your design team has developed an innovative but unconventional structural solution for a $60M facility that would save $4M in construction costs and reduce the schedule by two months. However, the customer's engineering staff is skeptical of the new approach, preferring traditional methods they're familiar with. The sponsor is interested in the cost savings but concerned about technical risks, and your district's chief engineer wants more analysis before endorsing the solution. You need to build consensus for moving forward. How do you approach this communication challenge?

 Organize a technical presentation that includes independent peer review of the innovative solution, provide detailed risk analysis and mitigation strategies, present case studies of similar successful applications, facilitate open discussion of concerns from all parties, and propose a phased implementation approach that allows for validation while capturing the benefits.
 Prepare a comprehensive briefing that presents both the innovative solution and traditional alternatives with objective cost-benefit analysis, address technical concerns with supporting data, and facilitate a collaborative decision-making process that considers all stakeholder input.
 Arrange separate meetings with each stakeholder group to address their specific concerns, provide technical documentation tailored to their expertise levels, present the cost and schedule benefits alongside risk mitigation measures, and work to build individual support before bringing the groups together for final consensus.
 Focus primarily on the cost savings and schedule benefits to persuade acceptance, provide basic technical information to address concerns, and emphasize the competitive advantage of using innovative approaches while downplaying potential risks.
 Insist that the innovative solution is clearly superior and should be adopted immediately, dismiss stakeholder concerns as resistance to change, and threaten to escalate the decision to higher authority if consensus cannot be reached quickly.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙