Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12911768-26-SEF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (Biomedical Info Systems) with the Department of Veterans Affairs. To ensure that you are successful in your application process, thoroughly review the job announcements duties, qualifications and required documentation. Provide all transcripts and military documents required to support your education and training. Ensure that your resume is detailed and supports all your experience and training. Please Note: A federal resume can and should be multiple pages. The more details and information that you provide regarding your education, training and experience the better we can assess your qualifications for this position.


To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.

Please answer the following questions. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

*Grandfathering Provision:  The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all Title 38 Hybrid qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education and/or licensure/certification/ registration requirements that apply to this occupation. Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and assignment held including positive education and certification. For employees who do not meet all the basic or assignment-specific requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:

(1) Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation, but they may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.

NOTE: This provision is not intended to regularize appointments/placements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: 
Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Citizenship: Be a citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens according to 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: In order to be found qualified for this position, applicants must first meet basic education and experience requirements. If you do not, then you will be disqualified from further consideration. Select the appropriate response to the required education/experience levels described below. (You will also need to meet the specialized experience requirement in order to qualify)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Education, Experience, or Certification: In applying for this Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (Imaging) position, do you posses any of the following Education, Experience, or Certification?
 
Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field; OR
Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program; OR
Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship; OR
Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment.
(Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.)
 Yes
 No


3.
For the GS-05 Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist: 

ASSIGNMENT: Employees at this grade level serve as entry-level developmental BESSs. It is expected that they receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require regular supervision. BESSs at this grade level perform basic tasks designed to prepare them for promotion. 5 They troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on general medical equipment. Entry-level BESSs assist with incoming inspections and documentation
Do you possess the basic requirements?
 Yes
 No


4.
For the GS-07 Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist:  Applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a)Knowledge of physics, anatomy, and physiology.
(b) Knowledge of electronics such as analog, digital, and microprocessor theory.
(c) Knowledge of the use of standard level test equipment such as multimeters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
(d) Knowledge of basic networking concepts, such as computer and server hardware and software functionality, information technologies and computer virus protection software, available software patches and upgrades, and information security tools (for example, Microsoft Office, Windows operating systems, and McAfee).
e) Skill in documenting all services provided in support of medical equipment and clinical systems in a computerized maintenance management system.
(f) Ability to learn equipment operating and maintenance procedures.

Do you have the experience listed above and all KSA's demonstrated in your resume?
 Yes
 No


5.
For the GS-09 Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a)Knowledge of basic networking concepts including Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
(b) Knowledge of computer and server hardware and software functionality including virus protection, operating system patches and upgrades, and information security tools.
(c) Ability to interpret a variety of technical data such as schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, table charts, mathematical expressions, and formulas. (d) Ability to use standard level test equipment including multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
(e) Ability to perform equipment maintenance and operating procedures.

Do you have the experience listed above and all KSA's demonstrated in your resume?
 Yes
 No


6.
For the GS-11 Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level.  In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
(b) Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multimeters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
(c) Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams. 
(d) Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
(e) Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
(f) Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
(g) Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.

Do you have the experience listed above and all KSA's demonstrated in your resume?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (Be as detailed as possible.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcript(s) are acceptable.

Transcript Reminder: If the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcripts. You may submit unofficial transcripts.

Licensure/Certification Reminder: If the position requires Licensure/Certification to qualify, you must submit a copy of your license/certificate with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙