Position Title
Bartender
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12915819 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Apr 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for a Bartender position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Possess working knowledge & skill to mix & serve a variety of alcoholic & non alcoholic beverages from a limited bar.
 1+ years of documented experience as a bartender
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience as a bartender
 Less than 6 months of documented experience as a bartender
 No documented experience as a bartender BUT documentation of attending a bartender school
 No documented experience


2.
Knowledge of basic arithmetic & cash handling procedures to compute charges & make change quickly & accurately.
 1+ years of documented experience working with cash and/or credit card transactions
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience working with cash and/or credit card transactions
 Less than months of documented experience working with cash and/or credit card transactions
 No documented experience


3.
Possess working knowledge of sanitation practices & procedures.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙