Position Title
Bio Equip Support Spec
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13053451-26-BC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation.


The following questions pertain to the Basic Requirements for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Entry Level Basic Requirements: Education, Experience, or Certification:
Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field; OR
Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program; OR
Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship; OR
Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment.
(Transcripts must be submitted with application - degree must be reflected as conferred and/or coursework/grades reflected on transcripts)

 I possess the education/experience or currently hold or previously held one of the listed certification as described above. NOTE- if using the listed certification to qualify at the entry level (GS-5) you must submit that certification with you application package.
 I do not have the education/experience as described above.


The following questions pertain to the level of your specialized experience.


3.
To qualify for the GS-5 level as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist you must possess the Basic Qualifications listed below:
Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.

 I meet the basic requirements and I am qualified for the biomedical equipment support specialist (BESS) position for the entry level position (GS-5).
 I DO NOT meet the basic requirements and I am qualified for the biomedical equipment support specialist (BESS) position for the entry level position (GS-5).


4.
Grade Level:  To qualify at the GS-7 level you must have the following.

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-5).  Experience at the GS-5  (entry-level) experience includes receiving guidance from more experienced staff members and require regular supervision. BESSs at this grade level perform basic tasks. They troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on general medical equipment and assist with incoming inspections and documentation. 
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of physics, anatomy, and physiology.
Knowledge of electronics such as analog, digital, and microprocessor theory.
Knowledge of the use of standard level test equipment such as multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
Knowledge of basic networking concepts, such as computer and server hardware and software functionality, information technologies and computer virus protection software, available software patches and upgrades, and information security tools (for example, Microsoft Office, Windows operating systems, and McAfee).
Skill in documenting all services provided in support of medical equipment and clinical systems in a computerized maintenance management system.
Ability to learn equipment operating and maintenance procedures.
Do you possess the Specialized Experience and KSAs listed above to qualify for the GS-7 Grade Level?
 I meet the Specialized Experience (One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-5) and listed KSAs and I am qualified for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position for the GS-7 Grade Level.
 I DO NOT meet the Specialized Experience and KSAs and I am qualified for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position for the GS-7 Grade Level.


5.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE and Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities(KSAs) needed to qualify at the GS-9 Grade Level:  To qualify at the GS-9 level you must have the following.

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7). Experience at the GS-7 level includes: performing an increasing range of duties, under less frequentsupervision, but receive guidance and direction regarding unfamiliar or unusual situations for more complex issues designed to prepare them for promotion. They troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance ongeneral medical equipment. Developmental-level BESSs assist with incoming inspections and documentation.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic networking concepts including Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Knowledge of computer and server hardware and software functionality including virus protection, operating system patches and upgrades, and information security tools.
Ability to interpret a variety of technical data such as schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, table charts, mathematical expressions, and formulas.
Ability to use standard level test equipment including multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
Ability to perform equipment maintenance and operating procedures.
Do you possess the Specialized Experience and KSAs listed above to qualify for the GS-9 Grade Level?
 I meet the Specialized Experience at the next lower level (GS-7) and KSAs listed above. I am qualified for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position for the GS-9 Grade Level.
 I DO NOT meet the Specialized Experience and KSAs required and I am qualified for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position for the GS-9 Grade Level.


6.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE and Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities(KSAs) needed to qualify at the GS-11 Grade Level:  To qualify at the GS-11 level you must have the following.

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-9). Experience at the GS-9 level includes: performing increasingly more complex tasks designed to preparethem to work independently at the full performance level. They troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on medical equipment. Developmental-level BESSs assist with incoming inspections and documentation. BESSs in this assignment receive increasingly less frequent supervision, direction, or guidance from more experienced staff members.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multimeters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams.
Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.
Do you possess the Specialized Experience and KSAs listed above to qualify for the GS-11 Grade Level?
 I meet the Specialized Experience at the next lower level (GS-9) and KSAs listed above. I am qualified for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position for the GS-11 Grade Level.
 I DO NOT meet the Specialized Experience and KSAs required and I am qualified for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position for the GS-11 Grade Level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙