Position Title
Foreign Affairs Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13022952-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Foreign Affairs Specialist 0130 because I have:

 Degree: major or equivalent, or a combination of courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; or 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines and 12 semester hours in statistics/quantitative methods.
 Combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 Experience - four years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Foreign Affairs Specialist, 0130.


2.
ZA-3: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Foreign Affairs Specialist, ZA-0130-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting with developing research strategies for multilateral or bilateral fisheries management or for protected species conservation and trade policies; Assisting with the collection or analysis of information on illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing and related practices (e.g. bycatch of protected living marine resources, seafood traceability requirements and international trade practices and policies); and Participating in the development of materials (e.g. position papers, proposals, agreements, etc.) that interpret technical and scientific information into plain language.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
ZA-4: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Foreign Affairs Specialist, ZA-0130-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Developing research strategies for multilateral or bilateral fisheries management or for protected species conservation and trade policies; Evaluating information on illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing and related practices (e.g. bycatch of protected living marine resources, seafood traceability requirements and international trade practices and policies); and Participating in the development of materials such as position papers, proposals, agreements, treaties, or other related materials that support fisheries management.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Which example below describes unreported fishing under the definition of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing?

 Fishing occurs in a nation’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) without permission.
 Fishing occurs with additional species or catch over quota that is not reported.
 Fishing occurs in a location with no management measures and in a manner inconsistent with treaty responsibilities.
 Fishing occurs within a nation’s EEZ while transmitting the required Vessel Monitoring System (VMS).


2.
Which Regional Fishing Management Organization (RFMO) covers tuna?

 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
 Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources.
 Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission.
 All of the above.


3.
The Tuna Tracking and Verification Program monitors compliance of imported and domestically produced tuna for:
 Sustainably harvested.
 Dolphin-safe labeling.
 Farmed or wild-caught.
 Low in mercury.


4.
What is a Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) code?
 A tariff rate and statistical category for merchandise imported into the United States.
 A calendar to schedule updates and maintain NOAA Fisheries operations.
 A list of fishery statistics to represent the standard taxonomic reference system.
 None of the above.


5.
Which example below describes illegal fishing under the definition of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing?

 Fishing occurs in a nation’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) without permission.
 Fishing occurs with additional species or catch over quota that is not reported.
 Fishing occurs in a location with no management measures and in a manner inconsistent with treaty responsibilities.
 Fishing occurs within a nation’s EEZ while transmitting the required Vessel Monitoring System (VMS).


6.
Which example below describes unregulated fishing under the definition of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing?

 Fishing occurs in a nation’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) without permission.
 Fishing occurs with additional species or catch over quota that is not reported.
 Fishing occurs in a location with no management measures and in a manner inconsistent with treaty responsibilities.
 Fishing occurs within a nation’s EEZ while transmitting the required Vessel Monitoring System (VMS).


7.
Which of the following is most relevant to advancing U.S. "seafood competitiveness" in U.S. seafood trade policy?
 Ensuring that all U.S. fishing vessels are exactly the same size.
 Requiring that imported seafood meet environmental and labor standards comparable to those mandated for domestic producers and that U.S. exporters do not face unjustifiable barriers to trade.
 Providing federal subsidies to ensure domestic fish is always cheaper than imported fish.
 Eliminating all tariffs for countries with the largest aquaculture sectors.


8.
Which of the following trade programs was established to meet U.S. obligations under the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources?
 Fisheries Disaster Assistance Program
 Antarctic Marine Living Resources Program
 Marine Mammal Protection Act.
 Commercial Fishing Vessel Safety Program.


9.
What is the purpose of the Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP)?

 To monitor the safety and temperature control of seafood imports into the United States.
 To identify and deter seafood products from IUU fishing or misrepresented from entering the United States.
 A seafood traceability program for all imported and exported products in the United States.
 All of the above.


10.
What is the fundamental requirement for all imported seafood covered by Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP)?

 It must be certified as organic.
 It must be accompanied by harvest and landing information.
 It must be processed in a U.S. facility.
 It must be transported by a U.S.-flagged vessel.


11.
Which species are covered under Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP)?

 All species that are commercially harvested.
 Sea cucumber, Red king crab, and abalone.
 Sea urchin, abalone, and haddock
 Swimming blue crab, Atlantic blue crab, and Red swimming crab.


12.
What is the purpose of the Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP) Compliance Importer's List?
 Identifies U.S. seafood importers that have passed a SIMP audit.
 Exempts U.S. seafood importers from required reporting based on a demonstrated record of program compliance.
 Recognizes U.S. seafood importers with a demonstrated record of audit compliance.
 None of the above


13.
The Certification of Admissibility is a key mechanism for managing:
 Domestic aquaculture permitting.
 Import restrictions on seafood products.
 Enforcement of domestic safety standards.
 Foreign fishing vessel registration


14.
Which of the following is a specific responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Specialist in their capacity?

 Process all international travel vouchers for the office.
 Certify the structural integrity of agency buildings.
 Develop the agency's cybersecurity policy.
 Create written materials that interpret technical information into plain language.


15.
Which of the following is a specific responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Specialist in their capacity?
 Processing all international travel vouchers for the office
 Certifying the structural integrity of agency buildings.
 Developing the agency's cybersecurity policy.
 Analyze trade policy to support seafood trade monitoring programs and import restrictions.


16.
Which United States agency has the sole authority to oversee and regulate imports and exports into the U.S.?
 Depends on the trade program of the agency.
 Customs and Border Protection.
 Department of Commerce
 Food and Drug Administration


17.
Import restrictions under the Marine Mammal Protection Act are applied to fish and fish products from foreign fisheries whose practices result in the mortality and serious injury of marine mammals in excess of:
 Zero
 The average rate of U.S. commercial fishing operations
 The national quota
 The carrying capacity of the marine environment


18.
Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP) audit requirements may include reviewing documentation to verify the legality of a product's harvest and:
 The product's retail price.
 The chain of custody from harvest to point of entry into the U.S.
 The consumer satisfaction ratings.
 The vessel's fuel efficiency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


19.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙