Position Title
CLERK (OA)
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-13052329-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
Which of the following applies to your educational status?
 I have completed all educational requirements in the previous two years for a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying institution.
 I intend to graduate within 9 months from the date of application.
 I am a current Treasury employee veteran who, due to military service obligation, was precluded from applying to a Recent Graduates Program during the two year eligibility period. I have extended eligibility so that I receive the full two years after discharge from active duty.
 None of the above.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-05, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 
-Utilizing computer systems to enter data and prepare reports; OR
-Reviewing files or documents for completeness, accuracy, and compliance.
OR
 
You may substitute education for experience as follows: four (4) years of education above the high school level. (Please attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit.)
OR
 
You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100%. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to six months of specialized experience.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-04 level or equivalent as described above.
 I have successfully completed 4 full years of education above the high school level (in any field) in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college, or university.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described that together qualify me for this position.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-04 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess a typing skill of at least 40 words per minute?
 Yes
 No


3.
I am applying for the Recent Graduates Program based on the following statement. Select the one statement that applies.
 I have, within the previous 2 years, completed all educational requirements for a qualifying, Associates, Bachelors, Masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying institution.
 I will have completed all educational requirements for a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying institution within 9 months of application date.
 I am a veteran, who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to a Recent Graduates Program during a portion of my 2 year eligibility period. My eligibility period is extended to receive the full 2 years of eligibility. I understand that my eligibility period may not extend beyond 6 years from the date that all educational requirements were completed.
 None of the above.


3a.
Please state your expected graduation date (if applicable).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙