Position Title
Physical Scientist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
UNSEC OSC-26-12923163-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the General Physical Science series, 1301 because I have:

 A degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 A combination of education and experience - education equivalent to one of the majors shown in response A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the General Physical Science series, 1301.


2.
ZP-3: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physical Scientist, ZP-1301-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in the analysis of remote sensing satellite system data products and capabilities; and Preparing reports or memoranda detailing satellite data, analysis, uncertainties, findings, and recommendations.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
ZP-4: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience to perform the work of a Physical Scientist, ZP-1301-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Planning or executing analysis on remote sensing satellite system capabilities, data, and operations; Performing comparative analysis between remote sensing satellite data sources product qualities and uses; and Developing documents, analytic reports, memoranda, findings and recommendations pertaining to remote sensing data.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


Assessment 2
1.
How can root mean square error (RMSE) relate to geospatial accuracy?
 There is no relationship.
 RMSE is a statistical quantification of the geolocation error of each pixel in an image.
 RMSE is the maximum error one can observe in the data.
 RMSE is the average error between predicted and observed pixel positions in an image.


2.
The ground sample distance of an electro-optical payload is or may be related to the following parameters:
 Altitude
 Inclination
 Off-nadir viewing angle
 Orbital period
 Eccentricity
 All of the above
 A, C
 A, C, D, E


3.
Remote sensing payload commanding can be performed by:

 Onboard automated processes
 Manual command entry
 Command script execution
 All of the above
 None of the above


4.
Visible light panchromatic imagery collected by a passive electro-optical space-based system is distinguished from other forms of electro-optical imagery by:

 The ability to detect thermal properties in imagery.
 Broadband collection resulting in enhanced signal at the sensor.
 Spectral differentiation useful for material identification.
 The ability to use the images for moving target indication.


5.
A graph of the relationship between ground sample distance (GSD) and range-to-target, with the 0-values at the origin, should be:

 Exponential, asymptotic to the focal point distance of the optics
 Linear, trending upwards to the right
 A polynomial curve with a global GSD minimum at the focal point distance of the optics
 Stepwise, trending upwards to the right
 None of the above


6.
Select the challenge for the orthorectification of synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery:

 Layover effects from tall structures or terrain
 Foreshortening
 Shadowing behind radar-impenetrable structures
 Complex transformations to convert from slant to ground plane
 All of the above


7.
In the context of a classical synthetic aperture radar (SAR) sensor, which of the following parameters is not typically considered taskable?

 Pulse repetition frequency
 Grazing angle
 Chirp slope
 Antenna size


8.
____ are mathematical combinations of ___ used to classify materials and features in electro-optical images.

 Stacks/pixels
 Indices/spectral bands
 Polynomials/spectral frequencies
 Convolutions/spectral curves


9.
The following activities are performed as part of routine Earth observation satellite operations. Select all that apply:

 A. Orbit determination
 B. Image scheduling
 C. Anomaly response
 D. Maneuver planning
 E. Safe mode recovery


10.
An _____ is an appropriate tool for addressing a ____ process, whereas an _____ is an appropriate tool for addressing a ____ process.

 Analytic plan/stochastic, operating procedure/predictable
 Operating procedure/nonlinear, analytic plan/linear
 Operating procedure/linear, analytic plan/nonlinear
 A and C are both correct
 None of these is correct


11.
Which of the following conditions of the host spacecraft would not impact the mission of a remote sensing payload?

 Frequency of collision avoidance maneuvers
 Satellite visual magnitude as measured from the ground
 Power distribution requirements to sustain multiple payloads
 Loss of spacecraft communications, including command and data handling


12.
How is geolocation accuracy for electro-optical imagery typically expressed?

 CE90
 NIIRS
 GIQE
 Revisit Rate


13.
As prescribed by sensor capability alone, which technical specifications could be used to characterize unenhanced hyperspectral data? Select all that apply.

 A. Number of bands collected
 B. Center frequency of each collected band
 C. Bandwidth of each collected band
 D. Image center coordinates


14.
A propulsion subsystem is used to point a spacecraft to make a remote sensing observation.

 True
 False


15.
A polygon uploaded into a geographic information system doesn't map to the location you expect it to. What is the first thing you check?

 Network drive connection to source files
 GIS software license key
 Compatibility of the map and polygon coordinate reference systems
 WGS84 standard compliance


16.
Common methods for ascertaining a spacecraft's location include (select all that apply):

 A. Ground-based observations with LIDAR systems
 B. Telemetry or beacon tracking with ground station antenna
 C. Ground-based observations with RADAR systems
 D. On-board GPS measurements
 E. The U.S. Government provides location data free of charge
 F. All of the above


17.
Which subsystem is primarily responsible for maintaining a spacecraft's orientation?

 Command and Data Handling
 Electrical Power
 Attitude Dynamics and Control
 Propulsion


18.
There is a dataset with millions of rows and dozens of columns. You need to analyze the data to generate a report, which will include data visualization. Which of the following combinations of Python libraries would be appropriate?

 NumPy, Matplotlib, TensorFlow
 NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib
 Flask, SQL, Pandas
 Django, NumPy, PlotPy


19.
The formula for ground sample distance (GSD) of an electro-optical sensor is as follows:
GSD = (p * H) / f
Where:



p is pixel pitch


H is altitude and


f is focal length
























Pixel Pitch	8 µm
Perigee	475 km
Focal length	1.25 m
Diameter	0.5 m
Wavelength	550 nm

For a sensor with the above design specifications, what is the GSD?

 3.04 m
 7.6 m
 0.304 m
 760 m
 3.8 m


20.
When imaging a resident space object from a spacecraft using an electro-optical system, doing which of the following will most improve image interpretability?

 A. Minimizing range
 B. Maximizing relative velocity between imager and target
 C. Maximizing the signal-to-noise ratio
 D. All of the above


21.
In what circumstance might you ask to review a spacecraft's housekeeping telemetry?

 When verifying data collection characteristics based upon instrument acceptance criteria
 During spacecraft assembly and environmental testing
 During a bus anomaly investigation
 When performing an on-site “bent pipe” ground terminal inspection
 After finding evidence suggesting variance between accurate and represented spectral characteristics of a sensor


22.
When evaluating a collected image to determine scene content, you might use ___ , whereas when predicting what tasks could be performed with imagery of a certain capability, you might use ___.
 GSD, GRD
 NIIRS, Johnson Criteria
 GRD, GSD
 GRD, MTF
 Johnson Criteria, NIIRS


23.
The amount of time between image collection and image delivery to the user is known as:

 Time-to-use
 Product delivery time
 Latency
 Delivery delay


24.
The spacing of spacecraft in an orbit to accomplish a specific remote sensing mission is known as:

 Staging
 Phasing
 Spacing
 Placement


25.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was easiest for you to answer and why.


26.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was hardest for you to answer and why.


27.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was the most memorable and why.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


28.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙