Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Tai Chi)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12988552-26-ES Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Candidate must have accumulated a minimum of 150 hours of formal Tai Chi or Qigong Instructor education. The 150-hour requirement may include the 50 hours of supervised instruction and any time spent in a formal educational program leading to certification. Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes
 No


3.
CERTIFICATION. Candidates must be currently certified to provide tai chi or qigong instruction. Acceptable certifications must have required successful completion of a minimum 30-hour tai chi or qigong instruction program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience that includes applying a basic knowledge of adapting Tai Chi practices to individual participants in group classes as appropriate for physical, mental or behavioral health conditions; using English terminology of postures and trauma sensitive language; instructing classes demonstrating appropriate adaptation and modification using cues to ensure safety, appropriate alignment and props as needed; preparing class sequence such as grounding, warm up, cool down, physical postures, breathing techniques and meditation or relaxation appropriate for the type of class and the ability of participants to ensure safe movement; and, ensuring safety protocols are followed for sanitizing, setting up and maintaining Tai Chi space that demonstrates the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Skill in adapting Tai Chi practices for a variety of participants and conditions.
Skill in conducting group and individual classes that support participant goals.
Skill in sequencing classes to ensure the safety of participants.
Ability to provide Tai Chi instruction in health care settings.
Ability to conduct equipment inspections to initiate work orders.
Ability to collaborate with members of a health care team to integrate movement into a personal health plan.


 Yes
 No


5.
Please provide the following information regarding your certification: active or expired, certificate number, certificate type, state issued, date of original issuance, date of expiration. If you are a graduate student or HPT and have not yet obtained your certification, please indicate the certification and anticipated date.Exception. Non-registered and/or non-certified applicants, who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for registration and/or certification, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate recreation therapist, under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B), for a period not to exceed two years. Applicants who fail to obtain registration and/or certification during this temporary full-time appointment may be terminated.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Experience: Candidates must have a minimum of 50 hours of supervised tai chi or qigong instruction. Do you meet these requirements?
 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙