Position Title
Chiropractor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTE-12825494-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 28, 2025 to Nov 07, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following questionnaire will be used to determine your level of experience pertaining to the position to be filled and to ensure you meet eligibility and qualifications requirements. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Are you a United States citizen?

Citizen of the Unites States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

(To be appointed under the Authority 38 U.S.C. Chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in the VHA applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a United States, unrestricted Licensure or Registration in the U.S.?

1) Doctor of Chiropractic (Except Residents). Current, full and unrestricted license to practice chiropractic in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The facility Director may waive this requirement if the doctor of chiropractic is to serve in a country other than the United States and the doctor of chiropractic has licensure in that country.

2) Residents, Licensure in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia before completion of the first year of a VA residency. Unlicensed residents must meet any registration or other equivalent requirements established for chiropractic residents of non-VA facilities or chiropractic clinics with which the VA facility is affiliated for training purposes during the first year of VA residency.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have a doctorate degree education of chiropractor?

Degree of doctor of chiropractic, or its equivalent, resulting from a course of education in chiropractic. The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools or colleges approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed.

Approved schools are:

(1) United states schools or colleges of chiropractic listed as accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education, at http://www.cce-usa.org/, or equivalent agency in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
(2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙