Position Title
General Attorney (Tax) (Special Counsel)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCR-26-12883156-ATTY Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 06, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Chief Counsel Attorney

Are you a current Office of Chief Counsel, IRS Attorney who is eligible as an Internal Candidate?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 Y. Phoenix, AZ
 Z. Laguna Office, Lake Forest, CA
 AA. Los Angeles, CA
 AB. Sacramento, CA
 AC. San Diego, CA
 AD. San Francisco, CA
 AE. San Jose, CA
 AF. Thousand Oaks, CA
 AG. Denver, CO
 AH. East Hartford, CT
 AI. Washington, DC
 AJ. Jacksonville, FL
 AK. Miami, FL
 AL. Ft Lauderdale Office, Plantation, FL
 AM. Tampa Office, Saint Petersburg, FL
 AN. Atlanta, GA
 AO. Honolulu, HI
 AP. Chicago, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Louisville, KY
 AS. New Orleans, LA
 AT. Baltimore, MD
 AU. New Carrollton, MD
 AV. Boston, MA
 AW. Detroit, MI
 B. Saint Paul, MN
 C. Kansas City, MO
 D. Saint Louis, MO
 E. Las Vegas, NV
 F. Newark, NJ
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. Manhattan Office, New York, NY
 I. Long Island Office, Westbury, NY
 J. Greensboro, NC
 K. Cincinnati, OH
 L. Cleveland, OH
 M. Oklahoma City, OK
 N. Portland, OR
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Pittsburgh, PA
 Q. Nashville, TN
 R. Austin, TX
 S. Dallas Office, Farmers Branch, TX
 T. Houston, TX
 U. Salt Lake City, UT
 V. Richmond, VA
 W. Seattle, WA
 X. Milwaukee, WI


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.

Under internal Excepted Service procedures, current Chief Counsel employees must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade restrictions. Please select the response that best describes your time-in-grade.
 I have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 I have previously occupied a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the Above


2.
A one year trial period is required for all attorneys, regardless of grade or tenure, who are serving their first year of employment with the Office of Chief Counsel, if not already completed. The one-year trial period begins with the date of appointment to either an attorney (905 series) or law clerk (904 series) position and is completed one year after the date of the appointment. Are you willing to serve a one year trial period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required trial period for this position.


3.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with Chief Counsels Directives Manual 39.1.2.6 . Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to placement in this position and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes, I am willing to meet this requirement.
 No, I am not willing to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Merit Hiring
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the General Attorney (Tax) (Special Counsel) position with the IRS - Office of the Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or commonwealth of Puerto Rico?

 Yes
 No


2.
List all states and/or territories in which you are an active member in good standing of the bar and the date in which you were admitted? (i.e. Florida - January 1, 2015)



3.
GS-15: Select the one statement that best describes the qualifications you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of General Attorney (Tax) (Special Counsel)at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal Service.

 I have a J.D. Degree from an ABA accredited law school AND at least 1 year of general professional legal experience, plus 3 years of professional legal tax experience. This experience included at least 52 weeks of professional legal tax work experience (comparable to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service) as detailed in the announcement.
 I have an LL.M. in the field of the position from an ABA accredited law school AND 3 years of professional legal tax experience. This experience included at least 52 weeks of professional legal tax work experience (comparable to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service) as detailed in the announcement.
 My education and experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙