Position Title
Program Analyst (Training Analyst)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-MDEO-13058114-26-ST-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a current or former member of the Armed Forces? In accordance with revised 5 U.S.C. 3330d(b), the head of an agency may now appoint noncompetitively: the spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty, the spouse of a 100 percent disabled member of the armed forces, or the spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces.

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty.
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
Based on Service Member's Death
As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

To verify your eligibility, submit the following applicable documents:

Documentation verifying marriage: (i.e., marriage license, certificate or other government issued document certifying marriage to your military spouse or veteran.)
A copy of your spouses active-duty military orders.
DD-214: Certificate of release or discharge from active duty (Military spouses of 100% disabled separated or retired veterans and widows or widowers, who are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
DD 1300: Report of Casualty (Military spouses who are widows and widowers, and are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
Veterans Affairs Benefit Documentation of Deceased or Disabled Veteran. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Military Spouses resources

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Saint Petersburg, FL
 D. Saint Paul, MN
 E. Muskogee, OK
 F. Nashville, TN


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of Department of Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles and Military Spouses.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of Department of Veteran Benefits Affairs (VBA) ?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, but I am a military spouse and will submit my marriage certificate, active-duty or PCS orders (For active-duty spouses) or DD-214 and VA letter certifying 100% disability, or DD-1300 and proof of unremarried status.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 or held the GS-13 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-12 position.
 No, but I am a military spouse and will submit my marriage certificate, active-duty or PCS orders (For active-duty spouses) or DD-214 and VA letter certifying 100% disability, or DD-1300 and proof of unremarried status.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.


3.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0343- Program Analyst (Training Analyst).

Specialized Experience:

To qualify for this position, applicants must have one year of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-12 level) in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience includes experience working effectively with various levels of individuals inside and outside an organization, Microsoft Office suite of applications and other training programs, evaluating program effectiveness and making necessary improvements when necessary, and managing national learning management systems and training records. The incumbent serves as an expert in disability medical exams and medical terminology; provides advice, guidance, and content on training related to the medical disability examinations.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙