Position Title
Engineering Technician
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13047845-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Technician position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I am an in-service applicant (current or former federal employee) and I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service which includes 1) applies basic principles of construction contract administration by performing tasks such as creating and maintaining contract files in an automated system. AND 2) Assisting with the review of payment documents by comparing invoices to contract terms, verifying calculations, and entering data into tracking spreadsheets or financial systems. AND 3) Providing administrative support for contract closeout and compliance by tracking the status of contract modifications and distributing documents as required.
 I am an outside applicant (i.e., those without current or prior Federal competitive or excepted service) and I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to a GS-10 in the federal Service which includes 1) Performing developmental duties in construction contract administration, such as setting up new contract documents in automated systems and verifying field data input for accuracy. AND 2) Reviewing routine contractor payment estimates and invoices, identifies and reports discrepancies to senior specialists, and ensures required information is entered correctly into accounting systems. AND 3) Assisting in the contract closeout process by gathering and organizing documentation for final payment packages and providing support for contract audit activities under the guidance of a higher-grade employee.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Assisting with life-cycle construction contract administration by reviewing contract modifications and documentation for technical adequacy and compliance with regulations. AND 2) Processing monthly contractor payment estimates for various contract types, ensuring compliance with payment schedules and maintaining accurate cost accounting records in automated systems. AND 3) Supporting construction contract closeout activities by processing payment packages, tracking the status of closeouts, and assisting with data entry and quality control.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙