Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12894403-26-EL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Engineer position at the VA San Diego Healthcare System. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.
Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA in this occupation, on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education, and/or certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Such employees in an occupation that does not require a certification/registration, may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis, prior to the effective date of the qualification standard, may not have their temporary appointment extended, or be reappointed on a temporary, or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification/registration, that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
If an employee, who was retained in an occupation listed in 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(3) under this provision, leaves that occupation, the employee loses protected status, and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education: Select the statement below that best describes your ability to meet the basic requirements for this position.
 I possess a Bachelor's Degree or Higher in Engineering: To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
 I possess certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree not listed on response above.
 None of the above apply to me.


Grade Level Requirements: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-07 Biomedical Engineer - Do you possess the Basic Requirements listed in questions 1 and 2 above?

 Yes
 No


4.
GS-09 Biomedical Engineer - Experience/Education Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-09 you must meet one of the following: Successful completion of a Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering or related field or Bachelor's degree, plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study; or One (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.
-AND-
In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-09 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
1.Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
2.Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
3.Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
4.Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.

Do you meet the experience, education, and KSAs requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11 Biomedical Engineer - Experience/Education Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-11 you must meet one of the following: Successful Completion of a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering; or a Bachelor's degree, plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study; or One (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.
-AND-
In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
1.Ability to implement and/or sustain an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.
2.Ability to develop material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare.
3.Ability to advise staff on emerging medical technology, or research procedures], while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems.
4.Knowledge of basic project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.

Do you meet the experience, education, and KSAs requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-12 Biomedical Engineer - Experience Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, successful completion of a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering; or one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.
-AND-
In addition to meeting the experience for the GS-12 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
1.Ability to conduct a medical equipment management [or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies.]
2.Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
3.Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and [TJC] requirements.
4.Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
5.Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
6.Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
7.Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
8.Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
9.Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.

Do you meet the experience, education, and KSAs requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙