Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12922240-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


8.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


9.
People with Disabilities, Schedule A

You are eligible for this appointing authority if you are an individual:
with an intellectual disability; OR
a severe physical disability; OR
a psychiatric impairment; AND
you have acceptable proof of the disability.
Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility (e.g., records, statements, or other appropriate information) issued by:
a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or,
a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or,
a Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
**Note: An agency may make permanent or time-limited appointments under this appointing authority.

For more information please go to OPM's website on Federal Employment of People with Disabilities.

Are you eligible under a Schedule A, Persons with Disability appointment?
 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


12.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. ? There are no right or wrong answers. ? Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. ? This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
During preparation for Congressional testimony, you discover that the cost estimates for a $50 million flood risk management project have increased by 40% due to environmental compliance requirements. The testimony is in 5 days, and Congress has already questioned the agency's cost estimation accuracy in previous hearings.
 Present the original estimates and address the increase during questioning if it comes up.
 Coordinate with Project Management and technical offices to conduct rapid analysis of cost drivers, develop risk mitigation strategies, prepare detailed justification with lessons learned, and proactively communicate changes to stakeholders.
 Recommend postponing the project until more accurate estimates can be developed.
 Request emergency funding to cover the cost increase without detailed justification.
 Delegate the analysis to subordinates and present their findings without review.


2.
You are managing a complex navigation project funded through three different appropriations (Construction General, Operations & Maintenance, and General Investigations) totaling $75 million. Mid-fiscal year, the O&M appropriation is reduced by 20%, but the Construction appropriation has excess funds available. Project completion is critical for regional economic development.
 Halt all O&M activities until additional funding becomes available next fiscal year.
 Continue work under the original plan and address funding shortfalls at year-end.
 Analyze fund transfer authorities, assess project phase dependencies, develop reallocation strategy ensuring compliance with appropriation law, and coordinate with HQUSACE for approval.
 Request supplemental appropriations from Congress to restore the O&M funding.
 Reduce project scope to match available O&M funding without considering alternatives.


3.
Your analysis reveals that three ongoing civil works projects are consistently underperforming against milestones, with obligation rates 25% below projections. This pattern threatens the district's future funding allocations and credibility with higher headquarters.

 Focus resources on the best-performing projects and accept losses on underperforming ones.
 Conduct comprehensive performance analysis, identify root causes, develop corrective action plans with measurable targets, implement enhanced monitoring protocols, and establish regular stakeholder communication.
 Request deadline extensions for all underperforming projects to reduce pressure.
 Increase funding to underperforming projects to accelerate progress.
 Report the performance issues to higher headquarters without proposed solutions.


4.
You must develop a 5-year program plan that balances competing priorities: aging infrastructure maintenance, new environmental restoration requirements, and emerging flood risk management needs. Total projected funding is $300 million less than identified requirements.
 Recommend equal percentage cuts across all program areas to distribute the impact fairly.
 Coordinate with Project Management and Technical offices to develop and report risk-based prioritization framework, conduct lifecycle cost analysis, assess mission criticality and public safety impacts, create phased implementation strategy with decision points, and prepare multiple funding scenarios.
 Focus all available funding on maintaining existing infrastructure and defer new requirements.
 Propose borrowing against future appropriations to meet all current requirements.
 Request guidance from higher headquarters on which programs to prioritize.


5.
Your most experienced program analyst, who handles complex Congressional justifications, has shown declining performance over the past six months. Their work quality has decreased, they miss deadlines, and team morale is being affected. You've learned they are dealing with personal issues but haven't formally addressed the performance problems.


 Ignore the issues since they are personal and hope performance improves naturally.
 Immediately initiate formal disciplinary action to document the performance problems.
 Conduct private performance discussion, establish clear expectations with measurable goals, provide support resources, develop improvement plan with regular check-ins, while maintaining team productivity and morale.
 Reassign their critical work to other team members permanently to avoid future problems.
 Recommend the employee for transfer to a less demanding position.


6.
Two of your senior analysts are in conflict over resource allocation methodology for a major program review. One advocates for historical precedent-based allocation, while the other pushes for performance-based metrics. The conflict is affecting team dynamics and delaying critical deliverables.


 Make an executive decision on which methodology to use and require compliance.
 Facilitate structured dialogue between analysts, analyze merits of both approaches, develop hybrid methodology incorporating best elements, establish clear decision criteria, and use conflict as learning opportunity for team.
 Assign the decision to a neutral third party outside the team.
 Implement both methodologies in parallel and compare results over time.
 Rotate responsibility for methodology decisions between the two analysts.


7.
Your deputy, who handles day-to-day operations, has been selected for promotion to another district. You have three potential internal candidates with different strengths: one with strong technical skills but limited leadership experience, one with good interpersonal skills but weaker analytical abilities, and one with balanced skills but less seniority.



 Promote based on seniority to maintain team stability and avoid conflict.
 Assess each candidate's development potential, create targeted development plans, provide stretch assignments and mentoring, establish clear competency requirements, and make selection based on overall capability and growth potential.
 Request an external hire to bring in fresh perspectives and avoid internal competition.
 Rotate the deputy responsibilities among all three candidates monthly
 Promote the candidate with the strongest technical skills since that's most critical.


8.
Your division is implementing a major reorganization that will change reporting relationships, consolidate functions, and require new skill sets. Half your team is resistant to change, productivity has declined, and two key employees have requested transfers.



 Implement changes quickly to minimize disruption and require immediate compliance.
 Develop comprehensive and phased change management strategy including stakeholder analysis, communication plan, training programs, feedback mechanisms, and support systems while maintaining operational continuity.
 Delay implementation until team resistance decreases naturally over time.
 Focus only on employees who are supportive of change and manage out resisters.
 Request exemption from the reorganization to maintain current team structure.


9.
You are overseeing a portfolio of civil works projects, and several projects have interdependent schedules. A delay in one project due to contractor performance issues is now threatening to delay two other projects, which could result in missed milestones and funding reallocation by higher headquarters. You need to address the issue while minimizing the impact on the overall program.




 Conduct a root cause analysis of the delay, develop a mitigation plan with the Project Manager and the Project Delivery Team while coordinating with leadership across disciplines to adjust interdependent schedules to minimize cascading impacts, and communicate the revised plan to stakeholders.
 Request additional funding to accelerate the delayed project and ensure the other projects stay on schedule.
 Halt all interdependent projects until the delayed project is back on track to avoid further complications.
 Focus on completing the other projects on time and let the delayed project proceed at its current pace.
 Escalate the issue to higher headquarters and request guidance on how to proceed.


10.
A critical path analysis reveals that delays in one major construction project will cascade to affect four other interconnected projects, potentially causing $20 million in cost overruns and 18-month delays. The delays are due to unexpected environmental permitting requirements that affect the entire program.


 Accept the delays and cost overruns as unavoidable due to regulatory requirements.
 Request emergency waivers from environmental regulations to maintain original schedules.
 Coordinate with Project Management and Technical offices to conduct comprehensive impact analysis, develop alternative sequencing strategies, assess risk mitigation options, coordinate with regulatory agencies for expedited processing, and create contingency plans with stakeholder communication.
 Halt all affected projects until environmental issues are fully resolved.
 Continue with original schedules and address problems as they arise.


11.
You are tasked with improving the district's ability to make data-driven decisions for program execution. Currently, data from multiple sources (financial systems, project schedules, and contractor reports) is inconsistent and requires significant manual reconciliation. Senior leadership has requested a real-time dashboard to monitor program performance and make informed decisions.





 Design an automated data integration solution, establish data quality standards, create validation protocols, and develop a real-time dashboard to ensure accurate and accessible program performance data.
 Focus on the most critical data elements and ignore less important information to simplify the process.
 Request additional staff to manually reconcile data and produce reports faster.
 Recommend reducing the frequency of reporting to allow more time for manual reconciliation.
 Use existing tools to create a high-level summary report and inform leadership that real-time data is not feasible.


12.
You need to integrate project performance data from multiple sources (financial systems, scheduling software, contractor reports, and field updates) to provide real-time program status to senior leadership. Current data is inconsistent, often delayed, and requires manual reconciliation that takes 40+ hours per month.


 Continue with manual processes but assign additional staff to reduce processing time.
 Focus on the most critical data elements and ignore less important information.
 Develop a list of requirements and coordinate with technical experts to design automated data integration solution, establish data quality standards, create validation protocols, develop real-time dashboard capabilities, and implement change management for new processes while ensuring data accuracy and accessibility.
 Request higher headquarters to provide standardized reporting tools for all districts.
 Simplify reporting requirements to match current system capabilities.


Assessment 2
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Program Analyst, GS-0343-13 position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Program Analyst at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Formulating budgets for Civil Works projects. AND (2) Executing Civil Works projects including cost share maintenance, monitoring and budget deviation. AND (3) Advising peers on the interpretation of established regulations and guidelines for budget management.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙