Position Title
AIRCRAFT ELECTRICIAN
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12837176-AF-25-268 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E6 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 193rd SOW
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 193 Special Operations Wing (This includes 193rd RSG, 193rd AOG, 211th EIS, 271st CCS, 201st RHS, 112th ACS, 203rd Weather Flight, 193rd SOW Det 1, 148th ASOS, PA ANG HQ DET 1)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training which has provided a knowledge and skill in locating and tying in the electrical systems with the aircraft armament, electronics and instrument systems, adjusting and calibrating the components of the various electrical systems? Do you have experience reading and interpreting blueprints, wiring diagrams, and schematics?

 Yes.
 No, I do not


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience or training installing, maintaining, repairing and modifying electrical systems and major substation components of electrical system? Experience diagnosing malfunctions and determining remedy when complex relationships exists among different electrical system circuits requiring knowledge of all electrical units and systems. Experience making electrical repairs that require the use of precision measuring equipment and common hand tools. Do you have experience in the operation of computerized multiple circuit analyzing equipment in manual, semiautomatic, or automatic mode to run existing and new (not fully debugged) diagnostic programs to test and analyze aircraft electrical circuitry and interconnecting cabling of systems such as navigational computers, radar, and related equipment and to repair discrepancies?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙