Position Title
Law Clerk (Tax) - Honors Attorney Program (2026)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCM-26-12870095-HON-SR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 23, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
IRS Office of Chief Counsel Honors Program
Are you a student pursuing a LL.M. who will graduate from an ABA accredited law school by the Graduation Date Requirement detailed in the announcement OR
Are you a recent law school graduate (LL.M.) from an ABA accredited law school, who, within 9 months of graduating law school, began participating in eligibility preserving activities detailed in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


If you are unwilling to accept a temporary appointment, you will no longer be considered for this position.


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
A one year trial period is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year trial period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Honors Attorney Program (Law Clerk) position with IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the qualifications you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Honors Law Clerk at the GS-12 grade level.

 I am a Tax LL.M. candidate/graduate, and in my J.D. program I was in the top 25% of my class AND/OR I held a GPA of 3.35 or higher.
 I am a Tax LL.M. candidate/graduate, and I am in the top 25% of my class AND/OR I have a minimum GPA of 3.25 in the LL.M. program.
 I am a Tax LL.M. candidate/graduate, and neither the LL.M. nor the J.D. program provide class ranking or a GPA, AND my LSAT score is 160 or higher.
 My education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Law school graduates who received their J.D. prior to October 1, 2022 are ineligible for the Honors Program.
Did you receive your J.D. prior to October 1, 2022?

 Yes
 No
 N/A - I am a current J.D. degree candidate.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes your State Bar status.
 I have not taken a State Bar Exam.
 I have taken a State Bar Exam; however, I have not been admitted to the State Bar.
 I have received admission to a State Bar and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position. Please consider applying to a Chief Counsel General Attorney (Tax) position.


4.
Provide your Law School Admission Test (LSAT) score. If you have taken the LSAT multiple times, please provide your highest score. If using LSAT score to qualify, you must provide official documentation of your LSAT scores with your application.



5.
Provide the name of the law school that you are attending, or attended, to obtain your Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree.



6.
Please provide the date of your graduation, or expected graduation, using MM/DD/YYYY.



7.
Provide your class rank in your law school J.D. program.
If using class rank alone to qualify for this program, you must include supporting documentation from the college/university with your application.
Please indicate the percentage (%) or N/A if your school does not use class rank.


8.
Provide your cumulative grade point average (GPA) for your law school J.D. coursework.
You must include transcripts and/or supporting documentation from the college/university with your application.
Please indicate the numbers only, for example, 3.35, or N/A if your school did not calculate GPA.


9.
Provide the name of the law school that you are attending, or have attended, to obtain your Tax Master of Law (Tax LL.M) degree.



10.
Provide the date, or expected date, of your graduation from law school with your Tax LL.M. degree using MM/DD/YYYY.



11.
Provide your Tax LL.M. GPA. If you have not received grades from your LL.M. program, please indicate "awaiting grades."
You must include current transcripts and/or supporting documentation from the college/university with your application.
Please indicate the numbers only, for example, 3.35, or N/A if your school did not calculate GPA.


12.
Provide your Tax LL.M. class rank.
If you are using class rank alone to qualify for this program, you must include supporting documentation from the college/university with your application.
Please indicate the percentage (%) or N/A if your school did not use class rank.


13.
Provide a list the courses you have taken in your Tax LL.M. program.



14.
If you have graduated and you are participating in an Eligibility Preserving Activity as noted in the announcement, please select the applicable Eligibility Preserving Activity below.
 Current Tax LL.M candidate.
 Current Judicial Clerkship - If applicable, please include a copy of your most recent SF-50 with your application.
 Qualifying Fellowship.
 Not applicable.


14a.
Please indicate the dates of the Eligibility Preserving Activity (EPA):


15.
Are you currently, or were you, a United States Tax Court Clerk? Please include a copy of your most recent SF-50 with your application.

 Yes
 No


16.
List any law school honors you received (such as Law Review, Order of the Coif, Jurisprudence Award, Moot Court).



17.
List all tax and/or accounting experience you possess (such as Volunteer Income Tax Accounting, Low Income Tax Clinic).



18.
List all tax/and or accounting certifications or licenses you possess (such as CPA license).



19.
List all work or achievements noted in a law school review or other recognized journal.



20.
The Legal Divisions | IRS Careers page describes the legal divisions and business units in both the National Office and field offices.

After you have reviewed the information, please select your top three (3) choices. You will only be considered for the first three business units you select in the order they appear below.

As a reminder, certain divisions are National Office functions and are only located in Washington, D.C.
 A. Corporate (DC Only)
 B. Criminal Tax
 C. Employee Benefits, Exempt Organizations, and Employment Taxes (DC Only)
 D. Energy, Credits, and Excise Tax (DC Only)
 E. Financial Institutions and Products (DC Only)
 F. Income Tax and Accounting (DC Only)
 G. International (DC Only)
 H. Litigation & Advisory
 I. Passthroughs, Trusts, and Estates (DC Only)
 J. Procedure & Administration (DC Only)
 K. Tax Exempt and Government Entities Division Counsel
 L. No preference


21.
Based on the locations listed below, please indicate your top five (5) preferred locations. You may be considered for up to five locations; however, the final decision is at management's discretion, and you must be willing to report to the location you are selected for.

Please read the list of locations thoroughly as not all Business Units are located in all advertised locations.

National Office:
National Office Divisions located only in Washington, D.C. include Corporate (CORP), Employee Benefits, Exempt Orgs, Employment Taxes (EEE), Energy, Credits, and Excise Tax (ECE), Financial Institutions & Products (FIP), Income Tax & Accounting (ITA), International (INTL), Passthroughs, Trusts, and Estates (PTE), and Procedure & Administration (P&A).

We are currently recruiting for our Division Counsel (Litigation & Advisory) in the following cities: Atlanta, GA; Austin, TX; Baltimore, MD; Birmingham, AL; Boston, MA; Buffalo, NY; Chicago, IL; Cincinnati, OH; Cleveland, OH; Denver, CO; Detroit, MI; East Hartford, CT; Farmers Branch (Dallas), TX; Greensboro, NC; Honolulu, HI; Houston, TX; Indianapolis, IN; Jacksonville, FL; Kansas City, MO; Lake Forest (Laguna Niguel), CA; Las Vegas, NV; Los Angeles, CA; Louisville, KY; Miami, FL; Milwaukee, WI; Nashville, TN; Newark, NJ; New Orleans, LA; New York (Manhattan), NY; Oklahoma City, OK; Philadelphia, PA; Phoenix, AZ; Pittsburgh, PA; Plantation, FL; Portland, OR; Richmond, VA; Sacramento, CA; Salt Lake City, UT; San Diego, CA; San Francisco, CA; San Jose, CA; Seattle, WA; St. Louis, MO; St. Paul, MN; St. Petersburg, FL; Washington, DC; Westbury (Long Island), NY.

We are currently recruiting for our Office of the Division Counsel/Associate Chief Counsel (Criminal Tax) in the following cities: Baltimore, MD; Chicago, IL; Cincinnati, OH; Houston, TX; Indianapolis, IN; Jacksonville, FL; Los Angeles, CA; Nashville, TN; Newark, NJ; New Orleans, LA; Portland, OR; Richmond, VA; Salt Lake City, UT; San Francisco, CA; Seattle, WA; St, Louis, MO; St. Paul, MN; Washington, DC; Westbury (Long Island), NY.

We are currently recruiting for our Office of the Division Counsel (Tax Exempt & Government Entities Division Counsel) in the following cities: Chicago, IL; Denver, CO; Farmers Branch (Dallas), TX; Jacksonville, FL; Los Angeles, CA; New York (Manhattan), NY; Seattle, WA; Washington, DC; Westbury (Long Island), NY.


22.
I am primarily interested in:

 Litigation - this work is performed in the Office of Chief Counsel field offices located throughout the United States. It involves trial preparation (discovery, motions, stipulation process); trial (examining witnesses, addressing evidentiary issues, oral arguments); and post-trial briefing.
 Technical Advisory & Guidance - this work is performed in the National office of the Office of Chief Counsel in Washington, D.C. It involves providing technical legal advice to IRS and Counsel field offices and drafting regulations, rulings, and guidance.
 Legal Advisory to IRS Field Examination - this work is performed in the Office of Chief Counsel field offices located throughout the United States. It involves providing legal advice to IRS agents, engineers, and economists auditing taxpayers to help them conduct examinations and develop issues.
 No preference.


23.
Provide an academic (from J.D. or LL.M.) or work reference. Please include the individual's name, mailing address, e-mail address, and phone number.



24.
Provide a second academic (from J.D. or LL.M.) or work reference. Please include the individual's name, mailing address, e-mail address, and phone number.



25.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙