Position Title
Social Services Assistant (Silent Monitor/Trainer)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12941596-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to Apr 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Social Services Assistant (Silent Monitor/Trainer) position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
 
Current Federal Employees: You must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Additionally, you must submit a SF-50 to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50's that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: 
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.

Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): The IOR is a basic requirement that must be met by every applicant in order to qualify for entry into this occupational series and is something that cannot be waived. Do you possess the specialized experience for the position GS-9 as required by the IOR? Examples of qualifying experience include:
Group leader in community or residential recreation or training programs.
Counselor in a youth summer camp.
Instructor in a training program for the development of job skills.
Work that demonstrated the ability to be responsible for and to lead and train members of a job crew.
Group activities leader in the Armed Services.
Unit leader-monitor-proctor for a dormitory group in a boarding school or other residential facility.
Aid or assistant to professional or specialist staff in such fields as personnel (private or government), employment guidance in a vocational or academic institution, social service, or manpower development.
Aid or assistant to professional or associate staff engaged in work of a social services nature in private, public welfare, government program, or community organizations, or in voluntary activities.
Aid or assistant to professional or specialist staff working with individuals who are addicted to or abuse alcohol and/or drugs.
 Yes, I possess the specialized experience for the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) listed above.
 No, I do not possess specialized experience for the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) listed above.


2.
GS-7 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: In addition to the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) listed above, all applicants must also meet ONE of the following:

Specialized Experience: At least one (1) full year of specialized experience that is equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-6. In order to meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet at least 3 of the 5 following specialized experience requirements:
Monitoring and documenting observations in terms of procedural compliance, customer service standards, and opportunities for improvement.
Providing customer service focused trainings and 1:1 coaching/feedback for educational and performance review purposes.
Communicating both positive and corrective insightful feedback to staff in a way that is supportive and constructive.
Developing and revising classes, briefings, lesson plans, methods of instruction, training-aid materials and multi-media instructional materials using Microsoft Office applications.
Participating in continuing quality improvement programs for ongoing systematic monitoring and evaluation of patient outcomes to include tracking data and designing/distributing quality assessment reports for management which identify performance and quality assurance issues.
OR

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required specialized experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed at least one (1) full year of graduate level education or an internship in course matter that must include courses directly related to the work of the Social Services Assistant position. This education must have been obtained at a college or university that is accredited by the U.S. Department of Education.

NOTE: To support your answer for this question, all claimed experience must be clearly documented on your resume with position titles, position start and end dates in month/year format, full/part time status, and salary level. All claimed education must be supported with a copy of your transcript attached. Failure to follow these instructions will result in no credit given for the claimed experience/education.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-6. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Monitoring and documenting observations in terms of procedural compliance, customer service standards, and opportunities for improvement; Providing customer service focused trainings and 1:1 coaching/feedback for educational and performance review purposes; Communicating both positive and corrective insightful feedback to staff in a way that is supportive and constructive; Developing and revising classes, briefings, lesson plans, methods of instruction, training-aid materials and multi-media instructional materials using Microsoft Office applications; Participating in continuing quality improvement programs for ongoing systematic monitoring and evaluation of patient outcomes to include tracking data and designing/distributing quality assessment reports for management which identify performance and quality assurance issues.
 I have successfully completed at least one (1) full year of graduate level education or an internship in course matter that included courses directly related to the work of the Social Services Assistant position. This education must have been obtained at an accredited college or university.
 None of the above.


SF-50 REMINDER: You must provide your most recent SF-50 form (dated 1/1/2023 or later) and your latest Within Grade Increase (WGI) or Promotion SF-50. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply for this position while the latest WGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify your Time in Grade (TIG) for this position. Failure to provide both SF-50s may result in automatic ineligibility for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙