Position Title
Fish and Wildlife Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R2-26-13027869-RR-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Qualifications


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
To meet the basic education requirements for the GS-0401 series, you must possess one of the following:

 I possess a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I  possess a combination of education and experience that consisted of courses equivalent to a major (24 semester hours) in fields such as those shown in response A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The quality of the combination of education and experience is sufficient to demonstrate that I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform work in the occupation, and is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in the appropriate field.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


Minimum Qualifications


2.
To meet the minimum education requirements for this GS-0482-09 position, you must possess one of the following:

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience for this position is described as: conducting biological or ecological investigations, including field investigations, to evaluate impacts to fish and wildlife resources in response to identified threats or stressors; reviewing and providing technical input on Endangered Species Act Section 10 research and recovery permit applications; reviewing biological assessments and preparing written responses to Endangered Species Act Section 7 consultation requests; and working with Threatened, Endangered and/or imperiled species, including and their conservation and recovery.  This experience is clearly demonstrated in my resume.
 I have two years (36 semester hours) of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree closely related field which clearly provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully complete the work of the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described in A and B above which together equals 100% of the requirement
 I do not meet all of the education or the specialized experience for this position.


2 Page Limit for Resume


3.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.

 Yes
 No


Certification Statement


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙