Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Special Agent in Charge)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
26-HUD OIG-12938377 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current HUD-OIG employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD-OIG employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.


5.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 I do not possess the requirements listed above.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


Performance Appraisal
1.

As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating, dated within the last year. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Planning, directing and coordinating criminal investigations; AND
- Providing direction and guidance to subordinate staff on complex and sensitive criminal investigations.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume, indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
Select all the duties listed below that reflect your leadership/supervisory experience coordinating criminal investigations.
 A. I have experience training criminal investigators
 B. I have experience reviewing finished work for accuracy and completeness.
 C. I have experience providing feedback to team members on their performance.
 D. I have experience resolving differences among co-workers or team members.
 E. I have experience leading investigation teams that included auditors and analysts as well as investigators.
 F. I have experience leading investigation teams that included digital forensic experts.
 G. I have experience leading support teams that included information technology specialists.
 H. I have experience giving advice on problem situations that are highly technical in nature.
 I. I have experience leading support teams that give advice on problem situations that are highly technical in nature.
 J. I have experience implementing new policies and procedures.
 K. I have no experience performing this task.


4.
Select all the law enforcement activities with which you have leadership experience.
 A. Making arrests.
 B. Conducting physical surveillance.
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance.
 D. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints.
 E. Performing interrogations.
 F. Conducting execution of search warrants.
 G. Participating in protection details.
 H. Conducting undercover operations.
 I. Conducting operations using confidential informants.
 J. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas.
 K. Conducting employee misconduct investigations.
 L. Conducting fraud investigations.
 M. Conducting bribery or public corruption investigations.
 N. Conducting investigations in which the subject is a high-ranking agency official.
 O. Conducting investigations in which Title III wiretaps are utilized
 P. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings.
 Q. Conducting investigations with large data sets and applied data analytics.
 R. I have no experience performing this task.


5.
Select all the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment.
 A. Conducting law enforcement interviews.
 B. Presenting investigative findings to Assistant U.S. Attorneys.
 C. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 D. Presenting information persuasively to defend unpopular positions.
 E. Providing oral training presentations.
 F. Orally providing information to the news media.
 G. Providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or raid team.
 H. Providing advice, guidance or direction to investigators of lower grades on regulations or procedures.
 I. Successfully negotiating for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures.
 J. Serving as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals.
 K. Negotiating budget proposals.
 L. I have no experience performing this task.


6.
Select all the written products below that you have experience writing.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities.
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations.
 F. Congressional briefing or reporting material
 G. Budget proposals or justifications.
 H. Press releases or public bulletins.
 I. Employee position descriptions.
 J. Policy and procedures.
 K. Project/Program planning proposals
 L. Training presentations and other training material.
 M. Strategic Plans, GPRA goals and/or other strategic measurements.
 N. I have no experience performing this task.


7.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to manage and coordinate the efforts of a multi-agency investigative team.
 I have no experience in performing this task.
 I have provided limited guidance, suggestions, or recommendations in managing an investigative team, but not in the capacity of a team lead.
 I have served in an acting capacity or as an investigative team lead to resolve complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 I have managed complete investigations or portions of large and complex or non-routine investigations Agency-wide or cross bureau lines


8.
Select all the statements that best describe your experience working with other law enforcement agencies.
 A. Conducting joint investigations with other federal law enforcement agencies.
 B. Conducting joint investigations with state or local law enforcement agencies.
 C. Serving as a formal agency liaison to another agency or organization.
 D. Served as a member of a federal task force.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Select the response that best describes your experience of OIG operations or related investigative experience.
 I do not have any experience of OIG operations or related investigated experience.
 I have criminal investigative experience with an OIG operation, another office, or equivalent.
 I have experience working in an OIG operation or have law enforcement operations experience with another office or equivalent.
 I have directly related experience gained in an OIG operation, or experience with the FBI, Police Department, or equivalent


10.
I have acted as a lead on a regular and recurring basis in major joint investigative activities with other Federal, State, and local agencies.
 Yes
 No


11.
I have demonstrated experience using Title 18, the U.S. Criminal code.
 Yes
 No


12.
I have experience conducting fraud investigations affecting HUD programs and operations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙