Position Title
Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Laboratory Manager)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-13003853-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.


Grandfathering Provision: A Clinical Lab Scientist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/03/2024) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0644-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.

Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
If an assignment above the FPL requires an additional certification over and above the basic requirements, employees must meet the assignment-specific requirement before they can be promoted.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C.7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Education Requirement: For the Clinical Lab Scientist, select the response which best describes your education.
 I possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 I do not possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university and therefore, I am ineligible.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree, otherwise indicate N/A. 
Name of Institution: 
City and State: 
Degree:
Major/Program: 
Month and Year conferred: 


3.
Basic Certification Requirement: Candidates must meet one of the certification options below:
1. Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
2. Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
3. Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.

Please select the response which best represents your certification.
 I possess a Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I possess a Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I possess a Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 I do not meet this requirement.


3a.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified indicate N/A.
Name on certificate:
Certification Type:
Certifying Organization Name:
Complete certificate number (if applicable):Issued date:


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


For all GS-14 assignments above the FPL, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety, and be performed by the CLS at least 25% of the time.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist(Laboratory), GS-14: 
Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) is required for all GS-14 assignments.
A. Knowledge of regulatory, licensing, accrediting agency requirements and statutes governing clinical laboratory operations used in planning, implementing, and monitoring laboratory programs and services.
B. Skill in problem solving and applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to measure and improve program effectiveness and/or organizational productivity.
C. Skill to develop new or modified work methods, organizational structures, records and files, management processes, and staffing patterns.
D. Skill in administrative management such as budgeting, contracting, procurement, and property management in accordance with VHA regulations.
E. Ability to balance administrative and clinical functions to coordinate and manage programs and resources.
F. Ability to plan and execute short-range and long-range programs and/or goals through project management and tactical/strategic planning.
G. Ability to effectively communicate, orally and in writing, technical information with a wide variety of individuals including senior managers in a medical center or health care setting or higher-level managers in regional or national offices (for example, VISN-level staff and VHA Central Office staff).

Do you have at least 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level?
 Yes
 No


5.
Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist(Laboratory), GS-14: In addition to the experience above ,the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: 
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. 
(A) Knowledge of concepts, principles, and methodologies of a major clinical laboratory program and operations to assess program effectiveness and provide authoritative guidance for operations, personnel, and management.
(B) Skill in administrative management such as budgeting, contracting, procurement, and property management in accordance with organizational (for example, VHA) regulations.
(C) Ability to collaborate with other departments and upper management in a medical center or health care setting or higher-level managers in regional or national offices such as VISN-level staff and VHA Central Office staff.
(D) Ability to plan and execute short- and long-range programs and/or goals through project management and tactical/ strategic planning.
(E) Ability to provide advisory, planning, and surveillance services to clinicians, laboratory directors, and supervisors on specific functions, programs, or problems that are particularly difficult, widespread, or persistent.
(F) Ability to solve complex problems involving unique or controversial aspects of medical technology or laboratory management, new or unconventional methods, program changes or conflicts between scientific/technological requirements and regulatory or program requirements.
(G) Ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties including responsibility for assignment of work, performance evaluations, selection of staff, and recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions.

Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities above?
 Yes
 No


Assignment. The supervisory CLS serves as the Laboratory Manager (Lab Manager). For all supervisory assignments the CLS must spend 25% or more of their time providing administrative and technical supervision and perform major duties above those at the FPL that consist of significant scope, complexity, difficulty, and variety. The CLS must supervise at least one staff member at the GS-13 grade level. The CLS exercises a full range of supervisory responsibilities in planning, directing, and assessing work of subordinate staff. The CLS provides guidance and serves as an authority and subject matter expert on laboratory medicine including research, agency policies, new techniques, and procedures. This individual develops guidelines, assesses laboratory effectiveness, and establishes and maintains quality assurance and quality management programs. The CLS consults with or serves as a consultant for local, network, and national programs and/or officials. The CLS manages regulatory affairs and compliance and develops and manages program budget and resource usage, inventory, acquisition, and contracting processes. They assist and participate in educational programs affiliated with institutions providing training for individuals in laboratory or other related medical fields of study.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙