Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Deployed Forces)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12925796 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Deployed Forces Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Years of experience planning fitness and recreation programing.
 5+ years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 5+ years of documented working experience in the civilian Recreation Program
 3 to 5 years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 3 to 5 years of documented working experience in a civilian Recreation Program
 2 to 3 years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 2 to 3 years of documented working experience in a civilian Recreation Program
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience in a civilian Program
 Less than 1 year documented working experience in either the DoD or civilian Recreation Program or no documented working experience


2.
Years of experience ordering fitness and recreation equipment suitable for shipboard use.

 3+ years of documented working experience
 1 - 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year of experience or no documented working experience


3.
Years of experience managing a recreation or fitness program budget.

 3+ years of documented working experience
 1 - 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year of experience or no documented worked experience


4.
Years of experience managing and controlling warehouse receipt and issuance of supplies and equipment.

 3+ years of documented working experience
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year of experience or no documented working experience


5.
Do you have a current unexpired driver's license?
 Yes I have an unexpired driver's license
 No I do not have an unexpired driver's license


6.
A four-year degree from an accredited college or university with a major study appropriate to the field of recreation administration of physical education is preferred but can be substituted for experience or a combination of experience and education that provides the knowledge of the goals, principles, methods, and techniques of the recreation programs and an understanding of the interests of individuals or groups. (for points to apply, you must upload a copy of your degree or official transcripts)
 Yes I have a four-year degree with a major study in the field of recreation administration of physical education
 Yes I have a combination of some education in the field of recreation administration of physical education as well as documentation of experience in the field.
 No I do not have a combination of education but have documented experience in the field of recreation administration of physical education.
 No I do not meet the education and/or experience required for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙