Position Title
IT Project Manager (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQKF251840169195HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Dec 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the IT Project Manager (PLCYPLN), NH-2210-03 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of IT Project Manager (PLCYPLN) at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NH-02 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Managing large-scale IT programs, from initiation to closing, 2) Analyzing and reporting project performance for Medical Systems, 3) Developing solutions to solve problems and ensure program/mission accomplishment, and 4) Developing and presenting briefings and recommendations on short/long-range project plans, quality improvement, and risk management to senior management. My specialized experience includes, or was supplemented by, information technology related experience (paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training, as appropriate) which demonstrates each of the four competencies, as defined: (1) Attention to Detail – Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: leading others by setting the standards for the quality of work, even in the most difficult and/or high pressure circumstances; reviewing and editing work completed by others to ensure that the quality of work meets acceptable work standards; (2) Customer Service – Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: using expertise and experience to address complex problems, questions, or complaints; anticipating customer needs and modify the team’s work activities, processes, and practices to meet these needs; collaborating across team and outside of own team to organize planning sessions that elicit ideas for improving customer service and support; (3) Oral Communication – Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: clearly explaining and defending complex ideas, appropriately adapting to each audience’s level of knowledge; actively listening and clarifying points when presenting highly complex and controversial findings; using well-constructed, fact-based arguments to persuade stakeholders/officials to take action on suggestions for improvement; and (4) Problem Solving – Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: providing precedent setting solutions to unique problems not previously encountered; helping team make decisions which are complicated by the number and nature of existing policy, guidelines, and organizational goals; identifying the root causes of problems; developing systemic solutions to address them and prevent them from reoccurring.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙