Position Title
Attorney-Advisor (General Law and Ethics)
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-13012007 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Attorney Requirements
1.
Basic Requirements (Attorney-Advisor): Applicants must (1) be a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D.; (2) be a current member of a bar with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and (3) meet all specialized experience requirements as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I am a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D. - I am a current member of a bar, in good standing, with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico - and I meet all specialized experience requirements as indicated below.
 I do not meet the basic requirements for this position as described above.


Assessment 1
1.
To be qualified for this position, you must meet the basic educational and/or work experience requirements for Attorney-Advisor positions in the Federal government. Applicants must (1) be a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D.; (2) be a current member of a bar with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and (3) meet all specialized experience requirements as described in the vacancy announcement.

Choose the response that best describes your qualifications for this position.


 I am a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D., a current member of a bar, in good standing, with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and I meet all specialized experience requirements as indicated above.
 I do not meet the basic requirements for this position as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Specialized experience for the GS-14: You must have a minimum of two years (24 months) of experience practicing as a licensed attorney. The experience must include one year of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in the Federal service or private sector, including acting independently as a lead agency or client representative in administrative or judicial proceedings, preparing drafts of legal briefs for court proceedings, drafting legal memoranda regarding effects of proposed legislation or regulations, or drafting briefing papers on legal issues for senior government officials or private sector clients.

Do you meet the specialized experience as defined above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have two years (24 months) of experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent level of difficulty in the Federal service or private sector, and have the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. Examples of such experience might include independently handling cases involving sensitive or highly visible issues that may contain facts which are difficult to develop and prove, or independently handling matters of a precedent-setting nature.

Do you meet the specialized experience as defined above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙