Position Title
Financial Economist
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12894791-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Mar 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
When Departmental Offices completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional offices or bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional offices or bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other offices or bureaus. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional offices or bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by the original office for this vacancy. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional offices or bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Applicants for this position must meet the following BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT:

A. Degree: economics, that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.

or

B. Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.

Examples of qualifying experience include:

1. individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation;
2. supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or
3. teaching assignments in a college or university that included both class instruction in economics subjects and one of the following (1) personal research that produced evidence of results, (2) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (3) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.

Experience in related fields that did not involve the use and understanding of economic principles and theories may not be used as qualifying experience for these positions. Special attention on this point should be given to certain types of work that may or may not have provided professional economic experience. The following examples of work require special care in such determinations:

1. economic statistics;
2. industrial surveys;
3. management of individual business enterprises, including farms;
4. industrial planning;
5. writing or editorial work in economic subjects; and
6. financial market analysis.


1.
Do you meet the BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS listed above?
 Yes
 No


Specialized Experience for the GS-14, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and
responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience for this position includes experience as a team lead or manager:
- Working at a bank, investment fund, or institution that performs financial or economic analysis; AND
- Working in international financial market sectors, such as sovereign debt, corporate debt, foreign exchange markets,
equity markets, credit markets, commodities, or mortgage market; AND
- Conducting market, financial, or economic analyses and relating them to public policy or international relations; AND
- Leading, as well as independently drafting, analysis and studies for senior decision makers, investors, and upper-level
management; AND
- Mentoring and training junior team members.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


Specialized Experience for the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and
responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience:
- Working at a bank, investment fund, or institution that performs economic or financial analysis; AND
- Working in international financial market sectors, such as sovereign debt, corporate debt, foreign exchange markets,
equity markets, credit markets, commodities, or mortgage market, AND
- Conducting market, financial, or economic analyses and relating them to public policy or international relations; AND
- Independently drafting analysis and studies for senior decision makers or investors; AND
- Mentoring and training junior team members.


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


Specialized Experience for the GS-12, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and
responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience meeting both A and B below:
A. Working on a trading floor or portfolio management in one or several asset classes, such as sovereign debt,
corporate debt, foreign exchange (FX) markets, equity markets, credit markets, mortgage market, or derivatives; or
Conducting market, financial, or economic analyses and relating it to public policy. AND
B. Communicating clearly and succinctly in written and verbal form such analyses and studies to decision makers or
investors


4.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙