Position Title
T5 GUIDANCE COUNSELOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
SC-13022188-26-234-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions. Note that the integrity of your responses will be verified with the provided resume.
 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours appropriate to the Guidance Counselor position to be filled in one or a combination of the areas described below. At least one course must have been from the first two areas listed below:

1. Tests and measurement: Study of the selection, evaluation, administration, scoring, interpretation, and uses of group and individual aptitude, proficiency, interest, and other tests.
2. Adult education: Study of the adult as a learner, teaching-learning theories for adults, models and procedures for planning, designing, managing, and evaluating adult learning activities.
3. Educational program administration: Study of the foundation and methods in organizing for adult and continuing education programs.
4. Curriculum development or design: Study of the principles and techniques for development of curricula for adult or vocational education programs.
5. Teaching methods: Study of teaching strategies and learning styles of the adult learner.
6. Guidance and counseling: Study of the purposes and methods in counseling and guidance, the role of the counselor in various settings, approaches to counseling, and the uses of tests in the counseling situation.
7. Career planning: Study of career development, learning activities, systems, approaches, program coordination, use of educational and community resources, and vocational counseling systems.
8. Occupational information: Study of theories of occupational choice and vocational development and their application to the guidance process. Identification and utilization of various types of occupational information and resources.

Please ensure your degree and transcripts are uploaded for verification. Failure to provide the required documents will impact your consideration of the position.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 1 year of experience equivalent to a GS7?

Please provide the SF50 for verification and ensure that your resume shows the required dates and experience necessary to demonstrate your capabilities.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙