Position Title
Supervisory Attorney-Advisor (Customs)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-SMP-12986896-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a current or former Federal employee?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level (or equivalent).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.


2.

The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Basic Requirement for this position. 

Applicants must be an active member in good standing of the bar of a state, The District of Columbia, territory or possession of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.  I understand that I am required to submit proof of my active status. 

Do you meet the Basic Requirement as described? 

 Yes, I am an active member in good standing of the bar of a court of general jurisdiction of a state, the District of Columbia, territory or possession of the U.S. and I understand that I am required to submit proof of my bar membership claim.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Requirement as described.


3.

The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Education Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements. 

Applicants must possess completion of the first professional law degree (LL.B. or JD); OR completion of the second professional law degree (LL.M.) from an accredited institution. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim. 

Do you meet the Education Requirement as described? 

 Yes, I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim. Transcript must include the date the degree was awarded/conferred.
 No, I do not meet the Educational Requirement as described.


4.
All newly appointed, GS-15s are required to complete mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible managers to attend the training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, permanent GS-15s shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you will be required to schedule the mandatory training within the first 90-days of your appointment and complete the training in Harpers Ferry, WV unless you have already completed this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-15 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes that includes drafting and reviewing complex legal rulings and regulatory documents for federal programs within established deadlines to ensure technical and legal accuracy; coordinating with cross-functional teams and subject matter experts to analyze and interpret statutory and regulatory requirements for international trade matters. advising senior leadership on policy and legal issues by preparing comprehensive legal memoranda and recommendations on proposed legislation and agency actions; supervising and mentoring a team of attorney-advisors and support staff by assigning projects, providing feedback, and monitoring progress according to established performance standards; leading the development and implementation of operating procedures and strategic plans for regulatory programs by integrating stakeholder input and aligning with organizational objectives.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙