Position Title
Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26667-CYP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 12, 2025 to Tuesday, November 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A minimum of a 4-year degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree as appropriate is preferred AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 A Master's degree in a related field of study AND a minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 A combination of experience that demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, coordinate, supervise, or evaluate youth fitness, recreation, and sports programs AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a master’s degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree.
 I have a 4-year degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree.
 I do not have a degree, but have experience in planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, and/or evaluating youth fitness, recreation, and sports programs.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct of youth and adult participants?
 I have 3+ years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in record management, inventory control, or purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth development program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments (e.g., sports fields, courts, etc.), as well as the necessary supplies and equipment (e.g., baseball bats, soccer balls, scoreboards, etc.)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 3 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 3 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


7.
What size is the Youth Sports Program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large Youth Sports Program (200 youth and above).
 I have experience managing a medium Youth Sports Program (100 to 199 youth).
 I have experience managing a small Youth Sports Program (up to 99 youth).
 I have no experience in the above.


8.
How many volunteers and coaches do you have experience in managing?
 I have experience in managing a large group of volunteers/coaches (100 volunteer/coaches and above).
 I have experience in managing a medium group of volunteers/coaches (26 to 99 volunteer/coaches).
 I have experience in managing a small group of volunteers/coaches (up to 25 volunteer/coaches).
 I have no experience in the above.


9.
How many different sport seasons per year do you have experience in managing?
 I have experience in managing 4 different sport seasons per year.
 I have experience in managing 2-3 different sport seasons per year.
 I have experience in managing 1 sport season per year.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙