Position Title
Plumbing Worker Supervisor
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
FOX-26-13032891 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


6.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


7.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


8.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


9.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


10.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


11.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS
LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience
 I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers.
 I have gained experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance and providing training to new workers.
 I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.
 None of the above.


3.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have supervised an inmate crew on a day-to-day basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals.
 I have experience with correctional administration, criminology, penology, or related field or has experience as a correctional officer supervising inmates on a day-to-day basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law.
 I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have indicated interested in working in a correctional institution during an interview; and/or I have displayed no negative information concerning aptitude for work with prisoners.
 None of the above.


4.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of the overall repair and installation of complex valves and steam traps; the installation, prefabrication and assembly of pipe systems of various pipe materials and equipment; and the operation of shop machinery and test equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have designed and assembled drainage systems; and/or I have repaired modulating or power driven valves; and/or I have worked on street sewer and drainage systems for cities; and/or I have been responsible for ensuring installations met the applicable building codes; and/or I have assigned and installed complete residential heating or boiler systems; and/or I possessed certification in the installation and inspections of backflow prevention systems.
 I have installed various kinds of pre-fabricated pipe systems involving clay pipe, copper, cast iron and plastic; and/or I have experience in the use of heating torches, solders, fluxes, special glues; and/or I have experience in installing sewer and drainage systems, pipe systems for garden sprinklers and overhead fire sprinklers; and/or I have experience in "roughing in" for fixtures.
 I have experience in assembling and setting in place various piping fixtures; and/or I have opened plugged drains by flooding vent pipes, reaming and drilling; and/or I have repaired malfunctioning commodes and simple valves.
 None of the above.


5.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of functions performed in the shop and in the field under different work situations. They must have knowledge in using alternative methods and/or tricks of the trade and latest developments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have supervised a crew working on high rise structures, high pressure lines and large pumps; and/or I have knowledge of and used latest developments such unusual piping materials as glass and special plastics; and/or I have worked on piping systems in connection with nuclear power plants; and/or I have field experience and knowledge of installation and operation of backflow prevention systems.
 I have experience with "roughing in" for various types of plumbing fixtures; and/or I have knowledge of various municipal codes and ordinances; and/or I am familiar with the various methods of tunneling underground pipe.
 As a helper, I have assisted journeymen who employed trade skills and methods in unstopping drains in preparation for copper pipe sweating; and/or I have "roughed in" basic in fixtures; and/or I have assisted in the tunneling of underground pipe.
 None of the above.


6.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience planning, estimating and contracting for work on difficult and involved projects, such as large restaurants, hospitals and laundries; and/or I have interpreted and applied complex drawings and blueprints to plan the installation of plumbing working in a large facility; and/or I have guided lower-level plumbers in new installation procedures and techniques.
 I have experience working from blueprints, specifications and work orders; and/or I have experience as an independent plumber, planner, and/or estimator for residential projects.
 I have performed plumbing finishing work as directed by supervisor; and/or I have completed tasks by interpreting simple manufacturer's drawings.
 None of the above.


7.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lay out work from blueprints, and utilize tools common to the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have performed extensive remodeling as an independent contractor or sub-contractor; and/or I have experience in constructing plans for schools and hospitals.
 I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined exact material needs; and/or I have laid out individual work to be completed.
 I have installed and lay out simple pipe systems; and/or I have installed basic drain systems from job orders, sketches, or verbal instructions; and/or I have sought assistance from foreman in performing new tasks.
 None of the above.


8.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have used a hydraulic cast iron pipe cutter, burning torch, tapping machine and tunneling equipment; and/or I have experience using pipe wedging and seating tools; and/or I have experience using various piping materials, such as terra cotta, various types of plastic, wrought iron, cast iron, copper and glass.
 I have worked with plastic glues, dissimilar metals and cement; and/or I have experience using special tools designed for the use on a particular job; and/or I have worked with hand and power tools relevant to the plumbing trade; and/or I have used power and hand tools as intended.
 I have used wrenches, a soldering torch, rodding tools, stocks and dies.
 None of the above.


9.
Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to independently diagnose problems, determine methods of repair, and recommend alternatives and solutions relative to the plumbing trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I am considered an expert troubleshooter; and/or I have been called upon to diagnose trouble and determined remedy when other competent workers have failed to find the source of the problem; and/or I have experience in diagnosing trouble and determined remedy in complicated systems where knowledge in other lines of work is required.
 I have experience in diagnosing and determining remedy for common troubles; and/or I have experience in troubleshooting with instruments common to the trade; and/or I have discovered malfunctions by direct observation.
 I have experience discovering simple malfunctions when troubleshooting involving the simplest decisions, such as locating and repairing a leaky valve in a water main; and/or I have discovered malfunctions where the source of trouble was betrayed by appearance, sound or response.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙