Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12856591-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 06, 2026 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


3.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Mechanic, WG-4749-10 position with the Department of Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this occupational questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Maintenance Mechanic at the WG-10 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. Failure to meet this screen-out element will result in an ineligible rating.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance mechanic duties: I am skilled in (1) Pipefitting - independently installed, modified, and repaired new and existing high-pressure piping systems and equipment such as steam-heating, steam generation, and hydraulic systems, Worked from building plans, blueprints, and sketches to plan and lay out the routing, placement, pitch, elevation, pressure reduction, expansion, and operation of various piping systems. (2) Carpentry - set up and operated a wide variety of woodworking machines and tools. Assembled items with a variety of joining techniques such as miters, rabbets, dados, biscuit, and mortise and tenon, and use glues and adhesives to secure wood pieces, veneers, and counter tops. (3) Electrical - Determined the proper gauges, sizes, and types of wire, conduit, couplings, fittings, relays, boxes, circuit breakers, and other electrical devices, to install them in ways that insure proper and safe operation of electrical systems and equipment. Interpreted and applied the National Electrical Code, local codes, building plans, blueprints, wiring diagrams, and engineering drawings when installing or repairing electrical systems. (4) Concrete - Assembled and set forms to meet precise job specifications. Determined when to use reinforcement steel or wire and installed and arranged reinforcement material to obtain maximum strength. Used floats, edgers, troweling machines, abrasives, and other cement finishing tools in performing final finishing and in shaping curbs and drains to proper grade and contour. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance mechanic duties. I am skilled in (1) Plumbing. Installed, modified, and repaired existing utility, supply, and disposal systems and equipment such as sewage, water, oil, and water closets by locating and tapping main lines, placing and cutting route openings, placing hangers for proper level and slope, and determining and installing valves, traps, and unions. (2) Carpentry - measured, cut, constructed, installed, repaired, and modified wood, composite, and wood substitute items within allowable limits. Applied standard measurements, specifications, and instructions when constructing, installing, or repairing items such as frame structures, decking, partitions, shelving, doors, forms, siding, and scaffolds. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber or wood substitute material required for the job. (3) Electrical - Planned and laid out the routing, placement, and arrangement of industrial or similarly complex systems, circuits, controls, and equipment. Completed installation, modification and repairs, and load and test systems, circuits, equipment, and controls to ensure safe operation. (4) Cement Finishing - Prepare subsurface for pouring of concrete to include, leveling ground and tamping fill material, such as sand, dirt, or gravel. Mix and prepare concrete in accordance with specifications, ensuring that the proper amount of cement, sand, stone, and water are used and that proper consistency is obtained. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some maintenance mechanic duties under supervision of a work leader. I have skill in: (1) Electrical - Install or repair electrical outlets or switches. Test circuits using equipment such as test lamps, voltage testers, and polarity testers. (2) Plumbing - assemble, install, modify, and/or repair new or existing utility, supply, and/or disposal systems and equipment such as sewage, water, oil, and gas distribution systems, and water closets, tubs, fire sprinkler systems, and showers. (3) Carpentry - Build, repair, alter or install wooden articles or structures such as window frames, door frames, inside walls, floors, ceilings, closets, counters, shelves, casing, wood foundations, or similar structures. Plan work from blueprints, drawings or verbal instructions.
 I have the ability to perform basic or simple tasks associated with the work of a Maintenance Mechanic: performing basic plumbing maintenance including unclogging sinks and toilets. Simple carpentry with construction of boxes or shipping containers. Basic electrical duties including testing outlets for voltage. However, I know little or nothing about the duties identified in "A", "B", or "C" above.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙