Position Title
Operations Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12921273 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Operations Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating


1.
How many years have you held a supervisory position? (Must be documented on your resume)
 I have more than 10 years of experience in a supervisory position
 I have more than 5 years but less than 10 years of experience in a supervisory position
 I have more than 3 but less than 5 years of experience in a supervisory position
 I have 1-3 years of experience in a supervisory position
 I have less than 1 year in a supervisory position
 I have never held a supervisory position


2.
Do you have a degree in Recreation/Fitness, Hospitality/Food & Beverage or Business Administration? (Must be notated on resume to receive credit and may be required to provide proof)
 I have a Masters degree in Recreation/Fitness, Hospitality/Food & Beverage or Business Administration
 I have a Bachelors degree in Recreation/Fitness, Hospitality/Food & Beverage or Business Administration
 I do not have a degree in Recreation/Fitness, Hospitality/Food & Beverage or Business Administration


3.
How many years of documented knowledge/experience do you have pertaining to finance/budgeting for multiple programs? (Must be documented on your resume)
 I have more than 3 years of federal government experience with finance/budgeting for multiple programs
 I have 1 to 3 years of federal government experience with finance/budgeting for multiple programs
 I have more than 3 years of non federal government experience with finance/budgeting for multiple programs
 I have 1 to 3 years of non federal government experience with finance/budgeting for multiple programs
 I have no documented experience


4.
How many years of operational knowledge do you have of goals, philosophies, principles, methods and techniques of a diverse organization that includes but is not limited to sports, fitness, aquatics, recreation, food and beverage and business activities programs? (Must be documented on your resume)
 I have more than 5 years of operational knowledge of goals, philosophies, principles, methods and techniques of a diverse organization that includes but is not limited to sports, fitness, aquatics, recreation, food and beverage and business activities programs within a NAFI.
 I have 5 years or less of operational knowledge of goals, philosophies, principles, methods and techniques of a diverse organization that includes but is not limited to sports, fitness, aquatics, recreation, food and beverage and business activities programs within a NAFI.
 I have more than 5 years of operational knowledge of goals, philosophies, principles, methods and techniques of a diverse organization that includes but is not limited to sports, fitness, aquatics, recreation, food and beverage and business activities programs.
 I have 5 years or less of operational knowledge of goals, philosophies, principles, methods and techniques of a diverse organization that includes but is not limited to sports, fitness, aquatics, recreation, food and beverage and business activities programs.
 I have no operational knowledge of goals, philosophies, principles, methods and techniques of a diverse organization that includes but is not limited to sports, fitness, aquatics, recreation, food and beverage and business activities programs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙