Position Title
Regional Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0492 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


9.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the Human Resources Specialist position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Which of the following best describes your qualifications for the Regional Human Resources Specialist position?
 I have three years of experience applying technical HR principles, concepts, and practices and process.
 I have a Master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in Human Resources or a related field.
 None of the above.


2.
Select the option that best describes your experience in Human Resources.
 I have worked in a CNIC NAF Human Resources Office previously.
 I have worked in a DOD NAF Human Resources Office previously.
 I have experience working as a Human Resources staff in other federal or private sector agency.
 I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.


3.
Select the option that best describes your experience with the various Human Resource programs: Recruiting and Staffing, Employee Relations, Benefits Administration, Worker's Compensation and Human Resources Information System.
 I have experience in all 5 Human Resource program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 I have experience in all 5 Human Resource program areas at the Assistant level OR Experience in 3 of the 5 program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 Experience in 3 of the 5 Human Resource program areas at the Assistant level OR Experience in 2 of the 5 program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 Experience in 2 of the 5 Human Resource program areas at the Assistant level OR Experience in 1 of the 5 program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 I do not have any experience in any Human Resources program.


4.
Select the option that best describes your experience interpreting laws, regulations, instructions and policies.
 I have experience interpreting laws, regulations, instructions and policies within NAF HR program.
 I have experience interpreting the laws instructions, regulations and policies within any other Federal HR program.
 I have experience with advising employees and supervisors on HR staff members on Federal HR program policies.
 I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.


5.
Select the option that best describes your experience interpreting and applying OPM classification guidelines and policies in developing position descriptions, determine appropriate titles / series / pay band / grade level, and developing crediting plans.
 I have experience as a Federal classifier and creating crediting plans to rate and rank applicants.
 I have experience applying knowledge of Federal classification to the recruiting process and using crediting plans to rate and rank applicants
 I have experience with a formal duties-based job evaluation structure and evaluating candidates using evaluations other than crediting plans.
 I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.


6.
Select the option that best describes your experience providing advice and assistance and interpreting policy and regulations related to employee relations.
 I have experience providing advice and guidance to managers on the most complex employee relations issues with no oversight (lead SME in ER).
 I have experience providing advice and guidance to managers on the most complex employee relations issues with oversight.
 I have experience providing advice and guidance to managers on some employee relations issues.
 I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.


7.
Select the option that best describes your experience providing advice and assistance and performing tasks associated with benefits program administration.
 I have experience providing guidance on all aspects of a benefits program: leave administration, retirement annuity, TSP or 401k, workers compensation, and insurances (all 5)
 I have experience providing guidance on most aspects of a benefits program: leave administration, retirement annuity, TSP or 401k, workers compensation, and insurances (3 of 5).
 I have experience providing guidance on some aspect of a benefits program: leave administration, retirement annuity, TSP or 401k, workers compensation, and insurances (1 of 5).
 I do not have the experience mentioned above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙