Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Aquatics Coordinator)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13069196 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Aquatics/ Fitness/Sports Coordinator) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
How many years of knowledge and experience do you have documented on your resume managing all daily operations of comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs to include: planning, creating programs, scheduling, training a team, hiring, coordinating, hosting, and maintaining assessments for all programs?
 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.


2.
How much knowledge and/or experience do you have in budgeting for multiple activities and in analyzing cost income and expenses and bottom lines of financial statements documented on your resume?
 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.


3.
Are you available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events?
 Yes, I am available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events
 No, I am not available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events


4.
Do you have required communication skills to coordinate from installation to community organizations for participation in fitness, sports, and aquatics programs?
 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in communicating with outside organizations.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience communicating with outside organizations.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.


5.
Qualifications for the position requires at least two of the following: (Certification and/or transcripts must be uploaded to receive credit).
1.  A four-year degree in the recreation or related field,
2.  Instructor certification as a lifeguard, water safety instructor and International Life Saving Federation or Red Cross Waterfront certification.
3.  A minimum of 3 years' experience in the industry.
 A. I have a four-year degree in the recreation or related field (Must be uploaded to get credit)
 B. I have instructor certification as a lifeguard, water safety instructor and International Life Saving Federation (Must be uploaded to get credit.)
 C. I have a minimum of 3 years' experience. (must be documented on resume to get credit)
 D. I have no degree or related experience.


6.
Do you have a current and valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙