Position Title
MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR (SSC)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12930046-AR-26-063 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants (USPFO ONLY). What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E5 - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E5 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which demonstrates the ability to follow instructions and safely operate the type of equipment required to accomplish the duties of the position
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-09: Do you possess 18 months experience or training which demonstrates the ability to operate and perform operator maintenance on straight-in-line trucks which typically have an approximate gross vehicle weight of more than 32,000 pounds. Experience demonstrating ability to operate truck tractors with semi-trailers or full trailers and motor coaches. Experience operating vehicles over a variety of roads including interstate highways, narrow country roads, and on steep winding grades. Experience driving vehicles without mishap in complicated traffic situations.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a time when you were responsible for planning and laying out a complex maintenance task for yourself and your team. How did you determine the necessary procedures, estimate the required manpower and materials, and organize the workflow to ensure the task was completed efficiently and effectively?



4.

Provide an example of a situation where you had to independently troubleshoot a difficult technical problem without direct supervisory guidance. What steps did you take to diagnose the issue, what resources did you use, and what was the final outcome?



5.

This position requires planning, organizing, and directing a shop maintenance program. Describe your experience in developing and maintaining program plans and records. How have you ensured that the programs you managed were functional and effective in meeting the mission's objectives?



For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


6.

Tell us about a time you provided recommendations or input to a supervisor regarding a personnel matter, such as a performance appraisal, award, or a change in a team member's duties. How did you approach the situation, and what was the result of your input?

 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙