Position Title
Supervisory Intelligence Operations Specialist (Director of Intelligence)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-IOS-DE-26-12841315 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Saturday, December 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and a copy of the most current Performance Appraisal.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 Yes
 No


4.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a military spouse?

Military Spouse Appointing Authority applies to the following categories of military spouses.

Spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty
Spouses of service members who incurred a 100% disability because of the service member's active duty service, and
Spouses of service members killed while on active duty.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you an active registrant of the Health and Human Services Reemployment Priority Placement Program?If you select yes, please be sure to include the following documents with your application: 
A copy of your RIF separation notice, notice of proposed removal for failure to relocate, notice of disability annuity termination, or certification from the National Guard Bureau or Military Department that you are eligible for disability retirement;
A copy of your most recent SF-50 "Notification of Personnel Action'', noting your positions, grade level, and duty location
A copy of your latest performance appraisal including your rating; and
Any documentation from your agency that shows your current promotion potential.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience: Have one (1) year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service which includes ALL the following:
· Advising senior national security and intelligence executives on intelligence policies, practices, and governing legal frameworks --including Executive Order 12333 --to ensure organizational compliance with federal standards.

· Leading, managing, and mentoring teams of all-source intelligence analysts, delivering timely warning and strategic intelligence analysis to inform leadership decisions, including implementing career and professional development pathways incorporating Intelligence Community training and education resources.
· Developing and managing a program of analysis (POA) aligned with the Presidential Intelligence Priorities and National Intelligence Prioritization Framework (NIPF) related to HHS equities; Preparing and successfully delivering intelligence-derived products and briefings that address senior leadership and policymaker needs; building a budget based on your POA and monitoring planning and expenditure of funds; ensuring accountability and stewardship of funds and providing accurate, timely spend plans, travel requests, and vouchers.
· Leading constructive, collaborative relationships within the Intelligence Community and with other intelligence and national security stakeholders and customers across the mission space. Building formal outreach plans ensuring insights are reflected in deliverables, synchronizing efforts with your unit and the broader enterprise to ensure stakeholders remained fully informed and the work brought a coordinated, integrated, enterprise perspective to bear against your mission.
· Authoring and reviewing executive talking points and building prep books in support of Cabinet-level Principals attending White House Policy Meetings and bilateral and multilateral meetings and representing your organization at National Security Council-led meetings (i.e., PCCs/IPCs, Sub-PCCs/IPCs, etc.).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙