Position Title
Optometrist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12875220-26-AE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 29, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this (full-time) permanent position of Chief Optometrist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, located in Fort Wayne or Marion, Indiana.


The appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.


ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS - Basic requirements for the position of VP-0662, Optometrist


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: Please choose from list below one that best describes your employment eligibility.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee of VA Northern Indiana Health Care System (NIHCS)?
 A. Yes, I am a current, permanent employees of VA Northern Indiana Health Care System (NIHCS).
 B. No, I am not a current, permanent employees of VA Northern Indiana Health Care System (NIHCS).


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position of VP-0662, Optometrist. 

We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


U.S. CITIZEN - You must be a U.S. Citizen or U.S Naturalized Citizen to be considered for this position. (Noncitizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens).


2.
Are you a citizen of the United States?
 A. Yes, I am a U.S. citizen
 B. No, I am not a U.S. citizen.


EDUCATION. Degree of doctor of optometry resulting from a course of education in optometry. The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools or colleges approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are: (1) United States and Canadian schools or colleges of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed. (2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure.


3.
I possess a degree of Doctor of Optometry resulting from a course of education in Optometry from one of the schools fitting the criteria above?
 A. Yes, I am a graduate with a degree of Doctor of Optometry, resulting from a course of education in Optometry.
 B. No, therefore I am ineligible for the position.


LICENSURE & REGISTRATION - You must be licensed to practice optometry in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. Optometrists are required to possess full and unrestricted licensure and to maintain a current registration in their State of licensure if this is a requirement of the particular State. The facility Director may waive this requirement if the optometrist is to serve in a country other than the United States and the optometrist has licensure in that country


4.
Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license to practice optometry in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
 A. Yes, I possess a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice Optometry or surgery in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
 B. No, therefore I am ineligible for the position.


ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY - In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written English in order to perform the duties of this position.


5.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes, I am proficient in both spoken and written English.
 B. No, I am not proficient in both spoken and written English.


PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS - This section includes questions about the eligibility for this vacancy


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Applicants must undergo a pre-employment medical examination and be medically suitable to perform the essential duties of a Optometry efficiently and without hazard to themselves and others. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination?
 Yes
 No


CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in a loss of consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated and responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in a loss of consideration for this position.
 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job/position listed:

Job title Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position)
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)


Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications


TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER:  If you are using Education as whole or part of your Qualifications, you must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however they must contain sufficient information supporting your qualification claim (e.g. your name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree/Courses earned and the DATE the degree was conferred).

Note: Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙